The main drawback of unmanned aerial systems (UAS) is that almost their entire field of application is autonomous in terms of energy. Flights beyond 50 min are nearly impossible when using conventional energy storage systems (lithium-ion polymer or lithium-ion batteries). Several commercial products have been developed using hybrid systems (H-UAS). Although the improvement they have provided is undeniable, H-UAS in the present market are strongly limited by their low thrust vs. weight ratio, which is caused by limited electrical power generation and a non-optimal energy conversion with relatively low efficiencies. This paper reviews these systems to show the preliminary results of a prototype of hybrid generator which state-of-the-art electronics as well as a new approach using a supercapacitor (SC) array are used to save fuel, increase the thrust vs. weight ratio, optimize losses during conversion and prevent the overheating of the internal combustion unit (ICU). Whereas current generators mostly operate with the ICU at a constant speed, delivering maximum power, the presented prototype includes a throttle control system, and the engine works with a variable regime according to the power demand. Thus, fuel consumption is reduced, as well as heating and wear. The lifespan of the engine is also increased, and the time between maintenance operations is lengthened. The designed system provides almost twice the power of the hybrid current generators. The reduction in the RPM regime of the engine is achieved by means of a supercapacitor array that provides the necessary energy to keep the DC output power constant during the engine acceleration when the flight envelope experiences a perturbation or a sudden manoeuvre is performed by the pilot. To obtain maximum efficiency, the diode rectifiers and conventional converters used in the reviewed products are replaced by synchronous converters and rectifiers. The whole system is controlled by means of a FPGA where a specific control loop has been implemented for every device: ICU’s throttle, DC bus converter, charge and discharge of the SC’s array, cooling and monitoring of temperature for the cylinders heads, and on-line transmission, by means of a XBEE™ module, of all the monitored data to the flight ground station.