To find an effective correlation between the preparation process and the application performance of symmetric supercapacitors, the relationship between the structural characteristics of biomass porous carbon and the electrochemical performances of supercapacitors was studied. Based on a response surface experimental design, the pore structure of biochar produced by the microwave pyrolysis of sargassum was adjusted through the collaborative optimization of key parameters, and graded sargassum porous carbon (SPC) with different pore characteristics was successfully prepared. Three representative samples, SPC−1, SPC−2, and SPC−3, were selected by systematically exploring the effects of the specific surface area (SSA), pore volume (Vtotal), and pore size distribution on the electrochemical performances. The SSA and Vtotal values of SPC−1 were 1500.50 m2 g−1 and 1.0513 cm3 g−1, respectively. The large number of micropores provided space for electronic storage, allowing it to have an excellent electronic storage capacity. The SSA of SPC−2 was 2019.90 m2 g−1, and Vtotal was 1.2241 cm3 g−1. The rich micropores resulted in a good charge–discharge rate. The SSA of SPC−3 was as high as 2103.20 m2 g−1, and Vtotal was 1.4756 cm3 g−1. The micron−level mesopores between the SPC−3 carbon skeletons acted as ion buffer reservoirs to shorten the ion diffusion distance and produce excellent rate performances. Subsequently, the morphology and surface properties of porous carbon samples were characterized. The study revealed that hierarchical porous carbon materials with excellent properties must achieve a balance of the microstructure and surface properties and their influence on the electrochemistry. A higher degree of graphitization could bring about a high pore regularity, thereby optimizing the ion transport kinetics. Heteroatoms could increase redox active surface sites and provide additional pseudocapacitance, but the resulting defect structure formed a large number of pores with high edge roughness in the carbon material, which had a certain negative impact on the capacity properties of the materials. The above findings can provide technical support and a theoretical basis for controlling the pore networks and directionally optimizing the performances of supercapacitors by adjusting the pore structure of biochar.