Several kinds of flexible and stretchable devices were fabricated by laser direct writing. A stretchable Ag paste was employed as a conductive material, which showed the suitable resistance stability in the application to a stretchable electronic device. A stretchable Ag paste coating on a polyurethane film was applied to the fabrication of a stretchable in-plane micro-supercapacitor (MSC) consisting of a carbon electrode which was prepared by laser ablation of a carbon nanotube (CN) layer on the stretchable Ag paste coating. The cyclic voltammogram of the device showed the capacitive characteristics even during stretching. The in-plane MSC consisting of CN electrode can be worked as a power source for a digital clock during stretching up to 44% elongation. A stretchable Ag paste coating pattern was also applied to an antenna-type sensor, where a screen printing mask for the stretchable Ag paste coating was prepared by laser ablation. A black-dye containing gel film on a silk cloth was patterned by galvano-scanning of ns pulse laser beam. A dipole-type antenna pattern consisting of a stretchable Ag paste coating was prepared on a polyurethane film. A reversible change of return loss at 5.317 GHz during stretching and shrinking of the antenna pattern was observed. A flexible antenna type sensor was also applied to agri-sensing, where the sensing mechanism was based on the change of the resonant properties of the antenna-type sensor caused by the dielectric condition change around the device. A flexible spiral antenna-type sensor on a silicone elastomer sheet was fabricated by printing of a stretchable Ag paste through a gel film mask, where a spiral antenna pattern was drawn by laser ablation of a black gel film on the silicone elastomer sheet. The sensing of the drying process of a plant leaf was observed by the antenna type sensor. The change of the return loss spectrum can be attributed to the change of the water content in a plant tissue which influenced the dielectric properties of the plant leaf.