Supercapacitors (SCs) are electrical energy storage devices which have the peculiarity of storing more electrical energy than capacitors and supply it at higher power outputs than batteries. This, together with the fact that the SCs have high cyclability and long‐term stability, make them very attractive devices for electrical energy storage. Thermal transfer around a novel arrangement of a module of five rows of SCs is approached in this paper. A mixed aligned/staggered configura-tion is studied, aiming to explore a new possibility that can improve heat transfer more than other configurations studied before in the literature. The maximum SC current rate current is 84 A and the maximum temperature is 65 °C. The module undergoes charge and discharge cycles. The current tests are performed up to 50 A for natural convection and up to 70 A in forced convection. For the natural convection case, the SC located in the center of module is the most critical from the temperature point of view and the temperature evolution shows the necessity of a cooling system. The relative temperature reaches 27 °C for 50 A and the permanent regime cannot be reached with a current greater than 50 A. Thereafter, the impact of position and current on the temperature of SCs in forced convection is examined. The airflow mean air velocity is 0.69 m/s. The temperature of the SCs located on the third and fourth row are very close. However, the last row is the least cooled. This low temperature rise can be explained by the change from an aligned to a staggered arrangement between these rows. Compared to the natural convection case, a significant decrease is ob-served for the relative temperatures. The difference between the highest and lowest temperature augmentation also decrease but remain high. The temperature difference becomes greater than 5 °C if continuous current exceeds 39 A. CFD numerical simulation is performed for steady state at maximum experimental current rate in order to better understand the thermal and flow behavior. Numerical and experimental results are in good agreement, with a temperature deviation of less than 10%.