Supercapacitors with high power density and long cycling stability have attracted extensive attention. Carbon materials with large specific surface area, porous structure and good structural stability have been considered as promising electrodes for supercapacitors. Activated carbon is the most widely used electrode for supercapacitors, but activated carbon with micropores structure usually has impeded ion transport, leading to low specific capacitance and energy density. Recently, graphene shows the advantages associated with high capacitance, fast ion and electron transport as electrode for supercapacitors. However, the easy agglomeration of graphene layers, low packing density and high cost of graphene restrict its practical application. Therefore, it is a great challenge to design low-cost and sustainable carbon electrodes with novel structure. Preparing carbon electrodes by using biological polysaccharide, such as cellulose, chitin, chitosan and starch, displays great potential advantage for achieving carbon electrode with lowcost. In recent years, by directly utilizing the natural structure and combining the structural composition with characteristics of biological polysaccharide, the carbonization-activation method, template method, and electrospinning method are utilized to control the morphology, microstructure, pore structure and composition of the biological polysaccharide derived carbons, and the resultant carbons exhibit excellent electrochemical performance for supercapacitors. It is worth to note that heteroatoms in biological polysaccharides itself can realize heteroatom-doping in carbons without complicated procedures, and heteroatoms in carbon frameworks can improve the wettability and tune the charge distribution, which is beneficial for the improvement of electrochemical performance. In this review, we summarize the research progress with respect to biological polysaccharide derived carbon electrodes for supercapacitors. The factors affecting the ability of energy storage behaviors for the carbon electrode are emphatically introduced. At the same time, based on the introduction of carbon electrode materials derived from biological polysaccharides, the biological polysaccharide derived carbon electrodes are classified based on different dimensions, and the influences of various morphological and structural characteristics of biological polysaccharide derived carbon electrodes on their electrochemical performances for supercapacitors are significantly illustrated.