As one of the main power customers of the power system, rail transit consumes a large amount of electricity for electric locomotive traction every year. Therefore, reducing the traction energy consumption and improving the resilience and efficiency of the energy supply system are of great practical significance to promote carbon peaking and carbon neutrality. On the basis of the traditional traction power supply structure, the rail transit “grid-source-storage-vehicle” collaborative energy supply system introduces the energy storage system (ESS) and the renewable energy generation system. However, self-consistency of the three (load, the ESS and the renewable energy generation) and reducing the influence of two-way volatility and uncertainty on the energy management systems have become new issues. In order to achieve the above goals, reduce the power impact of the traction load on the traction network, and prolong the service life of the ESS, a “grid-source-storage-vehicle” dynamic threshold energy management strategy based on the fuzzy Petri networks (FPN) was proposed in this paper. Based on the basic power distribution framework of “grid-source-storage-vehicle”, a dynamic energy interaction rules were set in this strategy between the traction power supply system, the ESS and the renewable energy generation system under multiple operating conditions, which could be applied to the “grid-source-storage-vehicle” collaborative energy supply system with different structures. On this basis, the power of electric locomotive and the life of the ESS were taken as the input parameters of the FPN. After that, the adaptive dynamic adjustment of the discharge threshold was realized after the operations of fuzzification, Petri networks reasoning, and de-fuzzification. In this paper, the measured data of a traction substation was taken as a test case. The simulation results showed that, compared with the energy management strategy based on fixed thresholds, the energy feedback efficiency and regenerative braking energy storage efficiency could be effectively improved by the dynamic threshold management strategy based on FPN. At the same time, the utilization of photovoltaic power generation system is increased. The average energy taken by electric locomotives from the power system and the average discharge depth of the ESS are reduced as well, which could prolong the expected life of the ESS and improve the energy utilization of the collaborative energy supply system. To sum up, this strategy has positive significance for extending the expected life of the ESS and improving the energy utilization efficiency and operating economy of the collaborative energy supply system.