The classical density functional theory (CDFT) is applied to investigate influences of electrode dielectric constant on specific differential capacitance (Formula presented.) and specific energy storage (Formula presented.) of a cylindrical electrode pore electrical double layer. Throughout all calculations the electrode dielectric constant varies from 5, corresponding to a dielectric electrode, to (Formula presented.) 108 corresponding to a metal electrode. Main findings are summarized as below. (i): By using a far smaller value of the solution relative dielectric constant (Formula presented.), which matches with the reality of extremely narrow tube, one discloses that a rather high saturation voltage is needed to attain the saturation energy storage in the ultra-small pore. (ii): Use of a realistic low (Formula presented.) value brings two obvious effects. First, influence of bulk electrolyte concentration on the (Formula presented.) is rather small except when the electrode potential is around the zero charge potential; influence on the (Formula presented.) curve is almost unobservable. Second, there remain the (Formula presented.) and (Formula presented.) enhancing effects caused by counter-ion valency rise, but strength of the effects reduces greatly with dropping of the (Formula presented.) value; in contrast, the (Formula presented.) and (Formula presented.) reducing effects coming from the counter-ion size enhancing remain significant enough for the low (Formula presented.) value. (iii) A large value of electrode relative dielectric constant (Formula presented.) always reduces both the capacitance and energy storage; moreover, the effect of the (Formula presented.) value gets eventually unobservable for small enough pore when the (Formula presented.) value is beyond the scope corresponding to dielectric electrode. It is analyzed that the above effects take their rise in the repulsion and attraction on the counter-ions and co-ions caused by the electrode bound charges and a strengthened inter-counter-ion electrostatic repulsion originated in the low (Formula presented.) value.