NiCo-LDH has excellent electrochemical properties, but is easy to agglomerate and has poor electrical conductivity, so its intrinsic electrochemical properties cannot be reflected when used as an electrode. The standard solution is to disperse and load it on the surface of an inert substrate with good conductivity and a large specific surface area. In this paper, carbon nanowalls (CNW) with a three-dimensional porous structure were prepared for the first time on the surface of carbon cloth (CO with a large specific surface area, good conductivity, and inertness by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition technology further to improve its specific surface area and particle loading. NiCo-LDH was dispersed and supported on the CNW surface by electrodeposition to form a NiCo-LDH/CNW/CC three-dimensional composite electrode. The microstructure of the composite e-lectrode was observed by SEM, and the material composition of the composite electrode was analyzed by Raman and XRD techniques. Finally, the electrochemical performance of the composite electrode in the three-electrode system was further studied by electrochemical technology. The results show that CNW coated on CC surface as a carrier can effectively inhibit the agglomeration of NiCo-LDH and increase the dispersion and effective exposure area of NiCo-LDH. The formed NiCo-LDH/CNW/CC three-dimensional composite electrode has a specific capacitance of 1.4 times NiCo-LDH/CC at a scan rate of 2 mV/s. At a current density of 2 mA/cm2, the specific capacitance is as high as 3.9 F/cm2while exhibiting excellent rate performance. Moreover, after 10 000 cycles, the capacitance retention rate is still up to 70%, which is far better than the cycling stability of NiCo-LDH/CC, indicating that the prepared NiCo-LDH/CNW/CC composite electrode can give full play to the electrochemical performance of NiCo-LDH. It is a new type of electrode material with excellent application potential due to its excellent electrical properties, good loadability of CNW three-dimensional porous structure, and excellent mechanical and electrical properties of CC.