With the fast consumption of traditional fossil fuels and the urgent requirement for a low-carbon economy and sustainable development, supercapacitors are gaining more and more attention as a clean energy storage and conversion device. The research on electrode materials for supercapacitors has become a hot topic nowadays. An electrode material for a supercapacitor, comprising the ZIF-67 in-built carbon-based material, was prepared from a biomass pre-hydrolysate via a hydrothermal process. As a by-product of dissolving slurry, the pre-hydrolysate is rich in carbon, which is an excellent biomass resource. The utilization of pre-hydrolysate to prepare carbon energy materials could realize the high value utilization of pre-hydrolysate and the efficient energy conversion of biomass. Meanwhile, the cobalt-based MOF (such as ZIF-67), as a porous crystalline material, has the advantages of having a regular order, high specific surface area and controllable pore size, as well as good thermal and chemical stability. The addition of ZIF-67 modified the morphology and pore structure of the carbon, and the obtained samples showed outstanding electrochemical performance. One- and two-step synthetic processes generated specimens with a coral-like cross-linked structure and a new type of rough, hollow, dandelion-like structure, respectively, and the pore size was in the range of 2.0–5.0 nm, which is conducive to ion transport and charge transfer. In C2-ZIF-67, the hollow structures could effectively prevent the accumulation of the electrochemical active center, which could provide enough space for the shrinkage and expansion of particles to protect them from the interference of electrolytes and the formation of solid electrolyte interphase film layers. Additionally, the plush tentacle structure with low density and a large specific surface area could expose more active sites and a large electrolyte electrode contact area, and short electron and charge transport paths. Importantly, active, free electrons of small amounts of Co-MOF (1 wt%) could be stored and released through the redox reaction, further improving the electrical conductivity of Carbon-ZIF-67 materials in this work. Consequently, C2-ZIF-67 exhibited superior specific capacitance (400 F g−1, at 0.5 A g−1) and stability (90%, after 10,000 cycles).