Supercapacitors (SCs) have been widely exploited as a promising energy storage system due to their unique merits, including fast charge/discharge rates, long-term cycling stability and low maintenance cost. Therefore, researchers are focused on designing novel nanostructures with high surface area, optimum pore size and volume, and porous structure are highly desirable. Silicon dioxide (SiO2) has recently attracted enormous research attention as the electrode materials for SCs due to ease fabrication and integration possibility. However, due to the intrinsically poor electrical conductivity of metal oxides and the short diffusion distance of electrolytes into pseudocapacitor electrodes, only the surface of electroactive materials can effectively contribute to the total capacitance, while the large portion of material underneath the surface could hardly participate in the electrochemical charge storage process, leading to areal specific capacitance (ASC) values lower than expected. The coating of SiO2 has been recognized as a possible route to reduce the resistance and increase durability. Still, even for coated electrodes, the performance has always been several orders of magnitudes below that of carbon-based SCs. The morphology, structure, and particle size of SiO2 are related to the synthesis conditions and electrochemical performances. The thin films of SiO2 nanostructures deposited on conductive substrates and their composites both shows good performance (binder free electrodes). SiO2 and its composites display a large potential window for asymmetric SCs, delivering high energy density. More importantly, the design and development of composite materials with novel nanostructures are also effective ways to enhance the electrochemical properties of SCs. In this review, the research progress of SiO2 based composite electrodes for SCs are briefly reviewed. Consequently, the possible developmental direction, challenges, and opportunities for SiO2 based composite are also discussed.