Zuomu-based activated carbon was prepared by different activation methods. The structure of activated carbon was investigated by N2 adsorption, FT-IR, XPS, XRD, and Raman spectra. And the structure-property relationship of activated carbon was discussed. The results show that activated carbons prepared by different activation methods have different microstructure and electrochemical performance. Activated carbons prepared by KOH and H3PO4-KOH have well-developed micropores, abundant content of defective sites and heteroatoms on the surface of carbon matrix, which provide more energy storage space and active sites to increase the specific capacitance at low current density. The activated carbon prepared by H3PO4-KOH has better capacitance retention due to its wider micro mesopore distribution and pore connectivity. Activated carbons prepared by CO2, H3PO4 and H3PO4-CO2 activation possess well-developed mesopores, small micropore volume, poor connectivity, relatively complete carbon matrix, and fewer defects and heteroatoms exposed on the surface of the carbon matrix, resulting in the higher capacitance retention rate and lower specific capacitance. The microstructure of activated carbon has a great influence on the performance of supercapacitors. The developed microporous will provide abundant energy storage sites. The good connectivity will provide channels for fast ion transport to improve the capacitance retention. More exposed defects and heteroatomic groups on the surface or edges of the carbon matrix will be beneficial to improve the pseudo capacitance. These enable the supercapacitor to exhibit high specific capacitance and good cycling stability. Therefore, high-performance activated carbon electrodes for supercapacitors should have a well-developed microporous structure, a wide distribution of micro-mesopores, a smooth micro-mesoporous connected structure. At the same time, it contains more structural defects and heteroatom groups exposed on the surface of the carbon structure, thereby improving the energy density of the supercapacitor.