Na/K-ion hybrid capacitors are assembled with multilayer tungsten sulfide nanosheets coupled with nitrogen-doped carbon composite nanosheets and hierarchical nitrogen-doped carbon hollow nanospheres. The Na/K-ion hybrid capacitors achieve high energy and power densities due to enhanced cathode and anode material compatibility. Nonaqueous hybrid capacitors composed of battery-type anodes and electric double-layer capacitor (EDLC)-type cathodes have triggered much research interest due to the advantages of both high power and energy densities. Recently, urgent concern has been focused on the Na/K-ion hybrid energy-storage systems owing to the abundance and low cost of Na and K compared with Li. Unfortunately, the development of Na/K-ion hybrid capacitors is greatly plagued by the aggravated kinetics and capacity mismatch between anode and cathode. Herein, we designed high-performance Na/K-ion hybrid capacitors by simultaneously enhancing the kinetics of multilayer tungsten sulfide nanosheets coupled with nitrogen-doped carbon nanosheets (anode) and the specific capacity of hierarchical nitrogen-doped carbon hollow nanospheres (cathode). Our design philosophy of electrode materials could provide guidelines for the development of functional materials for highly efficient hybrid energy-storage systems. The kinetics and capacity mismatches between anode and cathode for the Na/K-ion hybrid capacitors (NIHC and KIHC) greatly hamper their overall performance output. Herein, we construct NIHC and KIHC using multilayer tungsten sulfide nanosheets anchored with nitrogen-doped carbon nanosheets (WS2@NCNs) composite as anode and hierarchical nitrogen-doped carbon hollow nanospheres (NCHS) as cathode. The strongly coupled sheet-on-sheet nanostructure of the anode can facilitate electron transport and alleviate volume change. In particular, the WS2-NCNs interface offers a more feasible channel for fast ion intercalation and deintercalation, which can improve kinetics. The hierarchical NCHS cathode provides numerous accessible active sites for reversible anion adsorption and desorption, dramatically enhancing the specific capacity. Consequently, due to the enhanced anode and cathode compatibility, the assembled NIHC and KIHC can deliver high energy densities of 134.7 and 103.4 Wh kg−1 at 117.5 and 235 W kg−1, respectively. Our electrode design strategy could offer guidance for the development of high-performance hybrid capacitors.