Here we study hybrid quantum technologies of accumulation, storage, transformation and transfer of energy in nanomaterials using nanoelectromechanical systems as hybrid binary two-level quantum devices. In the diagram representation of the quantum kinetics processes, general results on the hybrid binary structure of nanoelectromechanical systems and their two-level quantum mechanisms of functioning in nano-energy materials are given. It is shown that a quantum nanoelectromechanical system is a hybrid of two parts: a compact nanomolecular subsystem of nuclei and electrons and a locking them electromechanical capsule as supercapacitor layer of quantum entangled pairs of excitons. The layer has a subatomic thickness. The energy processes of nanoelectromechanical system occur at two levels: through single-electron channels of femtosecond pulses in the nanomolecular system and through two-electron channels of attosecond pulses in the electromechanical capsule. Starting with the initial accumulation of the attosecond pulse of the electromagnetic field, a step-by-step diagram of the functioning of the nanoelectromechanical system as a nanoenergy device is given. The final part of the paper presents the results of computer simulation of the functioning of the energy device of a nanoelectromechanical system in the form of a 500-atom cube with (100) faces in an FCC nickel crystal at three temperature conditions (1 K, 77 K, 293 K). It is revealed that the energy of soft X-ray pulses with energy 590 eV is effectively accumulated in the nanoelectromechanical energy device. For hundreds of picoseconds, this energy is partially dissipated, undergoing quantum fluctuations of the thermal field of the condensed state of the material. In all computer experiments for the studied temperatures, three identical energy jumps were found in the range up to 0.5 ns. Energy losses occur as a result of three identical jumps in the shape of the electromechanical capsule and the configurations of the nuclear-electronic subsystem embedded in it. It is shown that in the nonequilibrium quasistationary state the 500 – atomic cuboid nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS) of nickel has a high stored energy about 0.9 eV per atom as a result from large distortion of the NEMS capsule.