Electrochemical capacitors, also known as supercapacitors (SCs), have lately played an important role in energy storage and conversion systems due to their specific characteristics such as high strength, durability, and environmental friendliness. A wide range of materials is used as electrodes for SC applications because the electrochemical efficiency is primarily determined by the electrode materials used. Carbonaceous materials with unique surface, chemical, electrochemical, and electronic characteristics have become attractive for energy storage research, but they cannot meet the rising need for high specific energy and specific power. Besides, heteroatom-doped carbon materials have shown pseudocapacitance characteristics and improved specific energy, specific power, and conductivity. This makes them more adaptable in SC application. Among different heteroatom doping of carbon, S-doped carbon has gained considerable attention in SC applications due to its unpaired electrons and easily polarizable nature. S-doped carbon materials-based SCs have demonstrated enhanced surface wettability, improved conductivity, and induced pseudocapacitance effect, thereby delivering improved specific energy and specific power. Many reports on S-doped carbon for SC applications have been published, but there is no specific Review on the preparation of S-doped carbon for SC applications. This Review focuses on recent developments in the field of SC electrodes made from S-doped carbon materials. Herein, the preparation methods and applications of S-doped carbon for SCs were summarized following a brief discussion of different electrochemical characterization techniques of SCs. Finally, the challenges of S-doped carbon materials and their potential prospects were discussed to give crucial insights into the favorable factors for future innovations of SC electrodes. This Review aims to provide insight for further research on the preparation of S-doped carbon for electrochemical energy storage applications.