The most advanced power syslems available in space are the fuel cells and nuclear reactors. Both systems manifest low efficiencies for converting the primary energy into electricity and as consequence are requiring high heat dump into space mainly by infrared radiation. The thermonuclear power generator also requires a high temperature gas turbine and a mechano-electric generator, finally driving to low conversion efficiencies. The new nano-materials offer the possibility of creating direct energy conversion devices able of achieving high conversion efficiencies up to 99% in the cryogenic versions. The interest for direct conversion of the nuclear energy into electricity appeared in early 1940th, by the invention of the thermo-ionic fission device by Linder. Then a series of patents and scientific papers improved gradually the designs and performances of the devices, up to the actual concepts of beta-voltaic and liquid-electronics. The most intuitive direct conversion device looks mainly like a super mirror- or a heterogeneous super-capacitor. The issues on its operation are related to global conversion efficiencies and the stable operation life-time in high radiation field. There are combinations of nano-structures and actinides assuring both the neutron flux stability, by meeting criticality conditions and the direct conversion or the nuclear energy into electricity. Achieving a high efficiency internal conversion of the nuclear energy into electricity is not enough if it is not completed by a high efficiency power extraction system from the nuclear reactor core into the outside loud. The development of the new MEMS devices and micro electronics in the 40 nm technologies provides an excellent background for the production of the electric power harvesting and conversion devices embedded in the fuel. The new nano-structured materials may be produced as radiation energy harvesting tiles that are free of actinides, using them for harvesting the energy of radioactive sources and controlled fusion devices, or may include actinides in their structure achieving critical or sub-critical accelerator driven nuclear reactor assemblies. Another predictable advantage of the nanostructure is the property of self-repairing and self-organizing to compensate the radiation damage and improve the lifetime. Due to direct conversion the power density of the new materials may increase from the actual average of 0.2 kw/cm3 to about 1 kw/mm3 driving to miniaturization of nuclear power sources and reductions of the shield weight. © 2008 Materials Research Society.