In recent explorations, supercapacitors have been developed as energy storage devices that show excellent characteristics compared to conventional storage devices. The ferrite materials can have several redox states with high permeability which are attractive attributes for electrode materials for supercapacitors. Ferrite-based electrodes in supercapacitors is affected by the poor conductivity and cyclic stability. The literature suggests that both the electrical conductivity and the surface area of the electrode is increased by addition of graphene in ferrites. This hybrid supercapacitors of graphene and ferrite composites in which fast-reversible redox reactions causes storage of electrical energy has got great interest as an electrode material for next-generation supercapacitor applications. Many researcher reported binary, ternary ferrites nanocomposites with reduced graphene oxide as supercapacitor electrodes materials. In the present work, synthesis and study of quaternary transition metals (QTM) ferrites having formula CuxMn1-2x NiyFe2-y O4 are mixed with reduced graphene oxide (rGO) to prepare nanocomposites of CuxMn1-2x NiyFe2-yO4/rGO, for application in supercapacitor. The rGO based nanocomposites of QTM ferrites are explored using X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis for structural morphology and the cyclic voltammetry (CV) technique is used for the performance analysis of the electrochemical activity of the QTM ferrites. The results show the specific capacitance of CuxMn1-2xNiyFe2-yO4/rGO Naocomposite (282 F g–1) is highly improved by the addition of rGO (90 F g–1) compared with CuxMn1-2xNiyFe2-yO4 (32 Fg–1). The synthesized QTM ferrites are also explored by Thermal Analysis (TGA, DTGA, DSC), Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR), Field Scanning Emission Electron Microscopy (FESEM), as well as Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS). The results are discussed which suggest that the rGO based nanocomposites of QTM ferrites have promising scope for supercapacitor applications.