Biocarbon is a carbon-rich, porous material derived from biomass, and a promising electrode material for supercapacitors. Supercapacitors are fast-charging, long-lasting energy storage devices that have high power density and low energy density, relative to batteries. Many of the most recent efforts to raise the energy density of supercapacitors focus on increasing the gravimetric capacitance (F/g) of the electrode material. However, the electrodes in commercial supercapacitors are thin films (<50 μm), limiting the volume fraction of the electrode material within a device and, ultimately, its energy density. The use of thick monolithic electrodes (>1 mm thick) may alleviate this limitation, but only if monoliths can be made electrically conductive and facilitate ion migration in electrolyte. Whilst electrode thickness inevitably raises the overall resistance, the extent to which resistance is raised depends on the structure of the pores. This is also the case with electrolyte transport, making the pore structure of a monolith a key factor in improving performance. We use electron deceleration with a scanning electron microscope, physisorption, and x-ray diffraction to better understand what wood structures may be retained in biocarbon, and what new structures may be created when transforming wood to biocarbon. The features in four biocarbon samples are studied: one commercial hard-wood biocarbon, and three in-house biocarbon made from poplar, black locust, and pine via a slow pyrolysis procedure. The macro features of wood (those >1 μm, such as vessels, rays tracheids and pits) are retained in all four biocarbon samples. However, the retention of submicron wood features (e.g. layered structures within cell wall) is determined by pyrolysis conditions. Fast heating retained some submicron morphological structures in the commercial biocarbon, while the slow pyrolysis biocarbons did not have any distinguishable submicron features. The physisorption data suggested that the distributions of mesopores (2–50 nm) varied between biocarbons. X-ray diffraction showed the graphite nano-crystallites in all four biocarbon samples, but with significant size variations. Further study is necessary to learn how to tune the distribution of pore sizes, in order to create biocarbons with desirable pore structures.