The region often called near space is the region of that atmosphere that is too high for common aircraft to operate, but too low for satellites to maintain orbit. This area has become a serious consideration for stationing aircraft for commercial and military applications. Although researchers have been performing unmanned tests into the region, the ability to employ a vehicle and have it maintain its position for extended times has not been realized. One major concern for the development of such a vehicle is the amount of power that will be available to support long operation. Solar radiation is the main source of energy, but it is only available during certain periods of a 24 hour day. Further, depending upon the location of the vehicle and the time of year, being able to capture all of the available energy and efficiently store it can be quite and engineering problem. The University of Alabama Student High Altitude Power Experiment (UA-SHAPE) has proposed an experiment that will be included in the payload of the High Altitude Student Platform (HASP) which is a lighter than air vehicle conceived and controlled by The Louisiana State University Department of Physics and Astronomy. This vehicle is a large helium balloon that will carry a payload to altitudes of approximately 120,000 feet and maintain the altitude for 15 to 20 hours. Because the storage of energy is such a critical problem for operating a vehicle in near space, the UA-SHAPE team has proposed an experiment that will monitor the charge and discharge rates of three types of batteries considered for use in a near space vehicle (NiMH, NiCd, Li Ion) along with a supercapacitor. The energy storage elements will be charged using a solar array and a DC-DC converter during the time when the payload is exposed to solar radiation, and will be discharged through a DC-DC converter to a resistive load during the time of darkness. Also included in the payload is a control set of fully charged energy storage devices that will be flown with the payload. Upon completion of the flight, the state of charge of these energy elements will be compared with data taken in a room-temperature controlled environment. The room temperature characteristics of the proposed energy storage elements are known and documented. A number of researchers have also tested a number of these types of systems for space and cryogenic applications for their energy storage capabilities. The experiment proposed for this flight will observe the performance of these elements in actual near space conditions under pulsed loads. Also, it has been shown by researchers that combinations of these technologies (supercapacitors and batteries) can increase the efficiency of pulsed power applications (such as motors in ground based vehicles), so testing the supercapacitors in the is experiment with batteries will provide the UA-SHAPE team the critical data that will be used for the design of a long-endurance near space vehicle. The undergraduate students and faculty advisors involved in this project will design and fabricate the power electronics necessary to charge and discharge the storage elements, integrate this payload into the oval payload of the HASP vehicle, collect data during the HASP flight, and analyze and draw conclusions based on the data obtained before and after the flight. Upon completion of the project, all data will be documented and used for the design for the payload of a future near space vehicle. © 2007 IEEE.