Obviously, current and future stand-alone devices could all take advantage of self-powering energy harvesters and piezoelectric nanofibers as discussed in this chapter. In order to produce cost-effective piezoelectric nanofibers, the electrospinning process is a good candidate as various materials and nanoparticles have been successfully fabricated as nanofibers and/or nanofibers with embedded nanoparticles. The conventional electrospinning process has been modified for good alignment and position controllability as well as the feasibility to embed nanoparticles. The nanofibers obtained, such as PVDF and PZT for good piezoelectricity, are highly flexible and easy to fabricate for possible integration in implantable and/or flexible devices, as well as textile applications such as electric clothing. This provides tremendous opportunities in various fields for fiber-based nanogenerators. Several groups have demonstrated prototypes of nanofiber nanogenerators as reviewed in this work. Beyond the current feasibility studies mainly from academic institutes, further development of fiber based nanogenerators will be necessary for practical applications. Here, several future prospects/directions are discussed. High power nanogenerators: most of the current nanogenerators (including nanofiber nanogenerators) are limited to low power generation in laboratory environments. Some recent studies have advanced the records to higher power outputs73 as well as using real mechanical actuation sources such as the human heartbeat87 and mice96 to drive active devices such as LEDs.21 Nevertheless, the electrical power generated by current nanogenerators made of nanostructures is often too small to have practical usage for commercial hand-held systems such as an electrical watch, which typically consumes electrical power in the range of a few mW. Therefore, if and when the power generated by the current single nanofiber nanogenerator in the recorded range of 10-11 Watt can be boosted up to the range of 10-6 Watt, probably by multiple-nanofibers, many practical applications could attract strong commercial interest in nanofiber nanogenerators. Energy storage/regulation systems: similar to all electrical power generation devices, suitable energy storage/regulation systems will be required for nanofiber nanogenerators to store the generated energy and to release it at the right time. For example, repetitive deformation of a piezoelectric nanostructure is essential to generate energy and the generated energy could be accumulated in an energy storage system such as a rechargeable battery or supercapacitor for later release. For example, a ZnO-nanowire nanogenerator has been connected to a capacitor and macro scale electrical circuitry for a system demonstration with discrete wires.75 An integrated system that combines an integrated nanowire nanogenerator, integrated circuitry and an integrated battery/supercapacitor on a single chip could be an important technology challenge for future developments. Fundamentals on piezoelectricity: as stated and discussed in the earlier section, the fundamentals of the piezoelectricity of nanofibers have to be investigated systematically in all aspects to produce nanofibers with high piezoelectricity. Specifically, there is still no persuasive evidence to clarify the mechanism of the α → β phase transformation during the electrospinning process and published literature often provides conflicting information. Some groups have attributed this transformation to the whole stretching process of the jet due to the comparatively high fraction of bphase observed in smaller-diameter fibers from lower-concentration solutions, 43,49 while other groups relate the cause of β-phase formation to the solvent evaporation rate97 or the ion current,98 rather than the jet elongation experienced during the electrospinning process, because of a predominant β-phase obtained in films consisting of small (charged) droplets. In addition, some other works remain problematic with regard to identifying the formation of crystalline phases during the electrospinning process, especially the β- and γ-phases. Hence, further systematic studies and characterizations for the electrospun fibers are required. These include optimizations in process parameters such as materials, solvents, concentrations, electrical bias, needle-to-electrode distance as well as electrospinning methodologies. Furthermore, detailed analyses on the electrospun nanofibers have to be fully characterized with tools such as XRD, FTIR, PFM and SHG and Raman spectroscopy. As such, nanofiber nanogenerators with high energy conversion efficiency could be consistently built in the future. Wearable electronics: energy harvesters powered by human motion could be interesting and important as devices for wearable electronics, such as smart watches and displays. Directly charging and powering the wearable electronics via human motion could be advantageous over battery-powered systems, given that the form-factor and weight of wearable electronics are limited. As such, piezoelectric fiber-based nanogenerators could provide a potential breakthrough with the possibility of being integrated with fabrics for these applications.