Oxide Free Nanomaterials for Energy Storage and Conversion Applications covers in depth topics on non-oxide nanomaterials involving transition metal nitrides, carbides, selenides, phosphides, oxynitrides based electrodes, & other non-oxide groups. The current application of nanostructured nonoxides involves their major usage in energy storage and conversion devices variety of applications such as supercapacitor, batteries, dye-sensitized solar cells and hydrogen production applications. The current application of energy storage devices involves their usage of nanostructured non-oxide materials with improved energy and power densities. In this book readers will discover the major advancements in this field during the past decades. The various techniques used to prepare environmentally friendly nanostructured non-oxide materials, their structural and morphological characterization, their improved mechanical and material properties, and finally, current applications and future impacts of these materials are discussed. While planning and fabricating non-oxide materials, the readers must be concern over that they ought to be abundant, cost-efficient and environment-friendly for clean innovation and conceivably be of use in an expansive choice of utilization. The book gives detailed literature on the development of nanostructured non-oxides, their use as energy related devices and their present trend in the industry and market. This book also emphasis on the latest advancement about application of these noble non-oxide based materials for photocatalytic water-splitting. Recent progress on various kinds of both photocatalytic and electrocatalytic nanomaterials is reviewed, and essential aspects which govern catalytic behaviours and the corresponding stability are discussed. The book will give an updated literature on the synthesis, potential applications and future of nanostructured non-oxides in energy related applications. This book is highly useful to researchers working in the field with diversified backgrounds are expected to making the chapter truly interdisciplinary in nature. The contents in the book will emphasize the recent advances in interdisciplinary research on processing, morphology, structure and properties of nanostructured non-materials and their applications in energy applications such as supercapacitors, batteries, solar cells, electrochemical water splitting and other energy applications. Thus, nanotechnology researchers, scientists and experts need to have update of the growing trends and applications in the field of science and technology. Further, the postgraduate students, scientists, researchers and technologists are need to buy this book.