Ionic liquids are the type of liquids that like molten salts are composed of asymmetric cations and anions of organic or inorganic nature where cations are usually bulkier than anions. At room temperature, these can exist in liquid form and also have a broad range of temperatures to remain in the liquid state. As electrolytes, they operate under wide potential windows from 2 to 6. V and are promising for use in electrochemical devices such as supercapacitors and batteries. In the past few years, there has been an extensive use of ionic liquids as electrolytes in supercapacitors and batteries. As most of the ionic liquids are more viscous and less conductive, they tend to provide low capacitance but high series resistance that can be overcome by mixing them with appropriate solvents of organic or aqueous nature. The solvent for an ionic liquid is chosen by keeping into account certain factors of certain solubility, voltage stability, dipole moment, and boiling or freezing point. For an ionic liquid a solvent should have high solubility, dipole moment, wide voltage stability window, high boiling, or low freezing point. The use of solvent also reduces the overall cost of the electrolyte as many of the pure ionic liquids are expensive. The ionic liquid electrolytes have been used to develop supercapacitors that can operate under high-temperature ranges. This book chapter provides a detailed inscription of the application of ionic liquids in supercapacitors and batteries. Also the factors responsible for the better device performance have been discussed. The types of cationic and anionic species present in the ionic liquids play critical role in their physical characteristics such as ionic mobility, conductivity, viscosity, and their interaction with the electrode material that affect the supercapacitor performance. Many of these important parameters are also discussed in the succeeding text. The electrode materials based upon graphene have also been covered in detail this chapter.