Energy and environment are major global issues inducing environmental pollution. Energy generation from conventional fossil fuels has been identified as the main culprit of environmental degradation from global warming effects, in addition to environmental pollution which arises from rapid industrialization and agricultural development. In order to address these issues, nanotechnology plays an essential role in revolutionizing the applications for energy conversion and storage, environmental monitoring, as well as green engineering of environmental friendly materials. Carbon nanotubes and their hybrid nanocomposites have received immense research attention for their potential applications in various fields due to their unique structural, electronic, and mechanical properties. Here, we review the applications of carbon nanotubes (i) in energy conversion and storage as in solar cells, fuel cells, hydrogen storage, lithium ion batteries, and electrochemical supercapacitors, (ii) in environmental monitoring and wastewater treatment as in the detection and removal of gas pollutants, pathogens, dyes, heavy metals, and pesticides, and (iii) in green nanocomposite design. Integration of carbon nanotubes in solar cells and fuel cells has increased the energy conversion efficiency of these energy conversion applications, which serve as the future sustainable energy sources. Carbon nanotubes doped with metal hydrides show high hydrogen storage capacity of around 6 wt% as a potential hydrogen storage medium. Carbon nanotubes nanocomposites have exhibited high energy capacity in lithium ion batteries and high specific capacitance in electrochemical supercapacitors, in addition to excellent cycle stability. High sensitivity and selectivity towards the detection of environmental pollutants is demonstrated by carbon nanotubes based sensors, as well as the anticipated potentials of carbon nanotubes as adsorbent to remove environmental pollutants, which show high adsorption capacity and good regeneration capability. Carbon nanotubes are employed as reinforcement material in green nanocomposites, which is advantageous in supplying the desired properties, in addition to the biodegradability. This paper presents an overview of the advantages imparted by carbon nanotubes in electrochemical devices of energy applications and green nanocomposites, as well as nanosensor and adsorbent for environmental protection.