Fabric-based micro-supercapacitors have a great potential in the field of wearable flexible energy storage devices because of the controllable volume, changeable structure, intrinsic stretchability/bendability/foldability, easy integration and washability resistance. The design and construction of energy storage devices with complex structure and function of different dimensions have great influence on the flexible energy storage mechanism and electrochemical performance. One-dimensional MSCs with the advantage of good formability, small size, high flexiblity and easy capability of multi-device integration are useful to increase energy density. However, they cannot be used alone due to their limited loading of electroactive materials. In addition, their spinnability and mechanical strength need to be improved to achieve large-scale forming and manufacturing. Two-dimensional MSCs with short ion diffusion distances, improved in-plane charge transport kinetics and tunable surface/interlayer structures tend to enhance reactivity. However, the high aspect ratio of two-dimensional structure and excessive loading of pseudocapacitive materials weaken surface mass transfer and electron transport, reducing the material utilization and overall multiplicity of characteristics. Three-dimensional MSCs take into account the joint improvement of loading per unit area, conductivity and electrochemical activity of pseudo capacitive materials to combine energy/power enhancement and achieve rapid/high electrical energy storage. Also, the difficult conformal deposition of active substances and complex manufacturing process limit their wearable application. The energy storage mechanisms, construction methods, electrochemical properties and low-cost/scale-up preparation strategies for 1D/2D/3D micro-supercapacitors from the perspective of textiles aimed at their structural types and parameters are reviewed here and the key issues and promising research directions for the development of fabric-based micro-supercapacitors are proposed.