Aluminum electrolytic capacitors (AECs) have been used as power devices for AC filtering applications and are critical for the internet of things and self-powered wearable sensors. However, the capacitance of AECs, orders of magnitude lower than that of electrochemical capacitors (ECs), and the rigid shape of AECs are obstacles for their use in miniature and flexible systems. The development of flexible ECs that provide high volumetric capacitance and operate in the frequency range of AECs would thus have an enormous impact. In order to resolve the trade-off nature between the transport properties and charge storage capability of energy storage materials, we devised porous MXene/conducting polymer hybrid architectures for large-scale flexible ECs. These MXene hybrid-based ECs allow miniaturization of electronic systems, occupying a high position of capacitance versus frequency response plot, toward the development of form-factor-free miniature and scalable future electronic systems. Energy storage devices are limited by the trade-off between the transport properties and charge storage ability of materials. Electrolytic capacitors are kinetically fast, operating at kHz frequency, but limited by low capacitance. Electrochemical capacitors (ECs) provide high capacitance, yet their sluggish kinetics limit frequency response. Herein, we devise porous MXene/conducting polymer hybrids for large-scale flexible AC filtering symmetric ECs. These MXene hybrid-based ECs bridge the performance gap between high capacitance and frequency response, toward the form-factor-free miniature and scalable devices. Energy storage devices are limited by the trade-off between the transport properties and charge storage ability of materials. Electrolytic capacitors are kinetically fast, operating at kilohertz frequency, but limited by low capacitance. Electrochemical capacitors (ECs) provide high capacitance, yet their sluggish kinetics limit frequency response to a few hertz. Here, we devise strongly interacting, porous MXene/conducting polymer hybrids for large-scale flexible alternating current filtering symmetric ECs with high areal and volumetric capacitances of 0.56 mF cm −2 and 24.2 F cm −3 at 120 Hz, respectively. The high capacitance was maintained up to 1,000 V s −1 and originates from synergy of MXene/polymer hybrids. The operation of tandem ECs that filter a pulsating voltage from 60 to 10,000 Hz is demonstrated with device flexibility and durability over 30,000 cycles. These MXene hybrid-based ECs are expected to bridge the performance gap between high capacitance and the high-frequency response toward the form-factor-free miniature and scalable devices.