Due to the energy crisis and environmental pollution, the research and development of new energy is one of the important research issues and has attracted much attention nowadays. Besides the collection of new energy sources, the storage of energy has also received increasing attention. Usually, energy storage devices are batteries, fuel cells, super-capacitors, and dielectric capacitors. Among them, the batteries and fuel cells have high energy density, but the power density is low; the conventional dielectric capacitor has high power density, but the storage density is low; the power density and energy density of the super-capacitor are between the battery and the conventional capacitor. Dielectric capacitors have the advantages of high dielectric constant, low dielectric loss, high power density, fast charge/discharge speed, large operating voltage/current, good reliability, and good temperature stability, and have been applied in the field of pulse power devices. Bia-xially oriented polypropylene (BOPP) has already been commercialized. However, dielectric capacitors have inherent shortage of low energy storage densities, which limits their applications range. As one focus of current research, it is a key issue to improve the energy storage density of capacitors. Compared with bulk materials, film capacitors have high electrical breakdown strength, and therefore have excellent energy storage densities. The focus of this paper is on the research status of inorganic energy storage films and methods to increase their energy storage density. At present, a lot of researches have been carried out on energy storage thin films, and there are many structural systems, such as perovskite structure, strontium layer structure, pyrochlore structure, single metal oxide film, etc. Among them, perovskite structure film is the earliest and most common studied. Nowadays, the energy storage density of the lead-free perovskite structure film prepared by magnetron sputtering or laser pulse deposition is as high as 100 J/cm3 or more. However, due to the many methods of preparing the film and the complicated process, many factors can affect the performance of thin films, especially the energy storage density. The repeatability of the film process and the stability of the performance are very important. Based on the summary and analysis of literature, there are three methods to improve the energy storage density: element doping or multiphase solid solution is a relatively simple and common method, which can increase the polarization and breakdown strength, thereby increasing the energy storage density. Optimized preparation process can also improve the storage density of films. The modification methods include annealing process, local field engineering, orientation, stress, electrode and other aspects. The interface structure control of heterostructures is emerging in recent years and is a method for significantly increasing the energy storage density of a film capacitor. In this paper, first the key parameters for evaluating the energy storage performance of dielectric materials are introduced. Secondly, a brief introduction about the classification of dielectrics is presented and the research status of several types of energy storage thin films (such as perovskite structure, pyrochlore structure and oxide structure, etc.) are summarized. Then, the methods for improvement in the energy storage density of thin films are analyzed. Finally, the research trend of ceramic thin films for energy storage is proposed, which would be beneficial for the development of inorganic energy storage films.