The inadequacies of fossil fuels and the dramatic impact on global warming are the major energy security concerns have prompted the approaches to expand and develop the renewable energy technologies. Indeed, the acceleration of the rise of energy production from renewable and environmentally stable means, like wind and solar, have been met with new challenges. Questions have always been asked about such sources in the absence of wind and daylight respectively, leading to energy storage systems required to store the energy for when it is required. However, the effective and efficient utility of the entire energy and power by the storing system are still the major challenges of the current research. As it stands, current battery technology faces significant challenges meeting the existing power output demands, and with the current requirements for electric cars and fast charge technologies, these problems are only expected to increase. Electrochemical capacitors, which are normally solely referred to as supercapacitors, store electrical energy using the reversible absorption of ions from an electrolytic solution into two porous electrodes. Without any reliance on any chemical reactions to store electrical potential energy, supercapacitors are considered the most prospective energy storage devices in this regard. Several research works were carried out to enhance the energy storage and deliver applications of supercapacitor through last decade. The typical physical and chemical properties lead the nanomaterials to several breakthroughs in the fundamental as well as applied scientific areas such as energy storage or supercapacitor applications. Generally, two kinds of materials are used as supercapacitor electrode. One kind of materials store charges through surface adsorption called electrochemical double-layer capacitance (EDLC). Carbonaceous materials like graphene, reduced graphene oxide (rGO), carbon nanotube (CNT), and activated carbons are used as the EDLC electrode. However, materials store charges by faradic redox reaction called pseudocapacitive materials. Different metal oxide, hydroxide, and conducting polymers are used as the pseudocapacitive electrodes. However, such type materials face difficulties during practical applications. The optimization of electrical conductivity, structural flexibility, bandgap, and charge carrier mobility are the key point to solve the issues in the electrochemical charge storage mechanism of supercapacitor. Fabrication of nanoscale heterostructures is the appropriate solution to store energy by near-surface ion adsorption along with additional contribution from fast reversible faradic reactions. The creation of active sites and defects in the grain boundary of the heterostructure materials results in multiple redox activity, superior ionic conductivity, and short diffusion path. Furthermore doping is elementary to control the electrical properties of poorly conductive materials through fine adjustment of highest occupied molecular orbital and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital energy levels of host and guest in doped electrode materials providing the desirable properties of high-power density, fast charge/discharge process, and long life span. Therefore sufficient researches enrooted to the doped and nanoheterostructure electrode materials needs to be performed in order to exploit the high power and energy storage applications. Recently, different types of multimetal oxide, core shell, and spinal structures were developed through different chemical route, simple hydrothermal treatment, and high-temperature calcinations process. The creation of defects, vacancies, and active sites in between the grain boundary of the heterostructure influence the ionic conductivity and diffusion path of the electrolyte through the electrode materials. The size and the structural orientation of the particles are possible by controlling the presence of different phase or grain in a single system. The surface area and the porosity of the multimetal oxide also increase significantly as compared to the single metal oxide as the electrode materials. In addition, hybridization of EDLC and pseudocapacitive materials is another way to improve the electrochemical properties of the materials. Nanoscale hybridization of EDLC and pseudocapacitive electrode materials of different dimensionalities enlarge the surface area and enhance the active electrochemical sites. However, bandgap of the poorly electrically conductive electrode materials is modified through external doping. The optimized doping significantly enhances the tunneling probability and mobility of the charge carrier rises which in turn increase the quick charge–discharge and stability of the electrode even in the high current density. This chapter reviews current trends in the synthesis of heterostructure materials and the effect of external doping on the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (EDLC) as well as the pseudocapacitance. Based on the researches carried out till date, the study on the advantages of the heterostructure and doping of the electrode materials can be divided into three categories: (1) heterostructure electrode formed by hybridization of different pseudocapacitive materials, (2) heterostructure electrode formed by hybridization of EDLC and pseudocapacitive materials, (3) doping of the supercapacitor electrode materials and superlattice electrode materials. The carbonaceous materials such as rGO, graphene, CNT, and activated carbon are used as the EDLC electrode materials. However, the metal oxide, hydroxide, and polymers are used as the redox or pseudocapacitive electrode materials. The hybridization of different EDLC and pseudocapacitive materials results in superior heterostructure with high energy and power density. The raise in the available free charge carrier of the EDLC materials is achievable through doping. However, significant increase in energy and power density of the composite materials is observed by positive or negative doping. Superlattice is the kind of heterostructure where layers of different materials can be arranged periodically in nanometer dimension. The superior incorporation of different active nanomaterials in superlattice provides high electrochemical properties with high surface areas, high current handling, and high efficiency.