Flower-like Ni(OH)2 nanostructures were electrochemically grown on nickel foam (NF) in an alkaline GO solution without adding nickel salts. The electrochemical deposition process was carried out using two modes of potentiostatic and galvanostatic to investigate the influences of the applied potential regime on the physicochemical and electrochemical properties of the resulting Ni(OH)2 nanostructures. Furthermore, to validate the promoting effect of GO on the electrochemical growth of Ni(OH)2, the same synthesis processes were performed in the absence of GO, using both the electrochemical modes. The chemical composition and morphological features of the electrodes, and the role of GO in the electrolyte greatly changed by altering the applied electrochemical mode. When a constant negative potential was applied, GO nanosheets were not reduced or deposited on the NF, and only flower-like Ni(OH)2 nanostructures were formed on the NF. Due to its hierarchical porous structure, this sample exhibited a significantly higher electrochemical performance compared to the samples prepared in the absence of GO and the sample prepared in the presence of GO by applying a constant cathodic current. Co-electrodeposition of reduced GO (rGO) nanosheets along with the Ni(OH)2 nanostructures occurred as a constant cathodic current was applied, leading to the formation of highly-packed rGO/Ni(OH)2 composite layer providing a considerably lower electrochemical performance. The electrode prepared by applying a constant potential to the NF in the alkaline solution containing GO exhibited specific capacitances of 2667.2 and 1586.8 mF cm-2 at the current densities of 4 and 40 mA cm-2, respectively. This electrode also showed a good rate capability with capacitance retention of 78% after 1000 charge/discharge cycles at the high current density of 40 mA cm-2. The assembled asymmetric supercapacitor device of Ni(OH)2/NF//AC/NF showed a high specific capacitance of 543.6 mF cm-2 at 2 mA cm-2, and the capacitance retention of 73.1% after 2000 cycles of charge/discharge at 16 mA cm-2. It also provided the highest energy density of 143 μWh cm-2 at power density of 1400 μW cm-2.