Compared with traditional energy storage devices, supercapacitors have been a research hot spot and diffusely adopted in the fields of mobile telecommunication, electric vehicle, aviation and national defense due to their high specific capacitance, high charge-discharge rate, environment-friendly and excellent cycling stability, etc. Among them, the electrode materials of the supercapacitors play a crucial role on their performances, and common electrode materials used for supercapacitors mainly include carbon materials, transition metal oxides, and conducting polymers. Different materials have diverse charge storage mechanisms. Transition metal oxides exhibit typical pseudo-capacitance behavior, which depends on reversible redox reaction and chemical adsorption/desorption process to store charge. However, transition metal oxides have poor conductivity and cycle stability. Carbon materials mainly performed the characteristics of electrochemical double layer capacitance are relied on the reversible physical adsorption/desorption process between the material surface and electrolyte ions to store energy. In addition, carbon materials possess superb rate capability, conforming to the high requirements of the device lifetime for practical application, while the specific capacitance is relatively low. The composite materials generally exhibit superior electrochemical properties than that of the single component materials. Massive studies indicated that the composite of transition metal oxides and carbon materials was an effective method to solve the above-mentioned problems. As the preferential substrate materials for the construction of pseudo-supercapacitor, carbon materials with the advantages of rich resource, low cost, light weight, high specific surface area, thermal and chemical stabilities have attracted increasingly attention. Moreover, carbon materials with various structures including zero dimensional (carbon dot and sphere), one dimensional (carbon tube and fiber), two dimensional (graphene and graphene oxide), three dimensional (graphene foam and carbon foam/sponge) carbon materials, etc, have been successfully applied to fabricate carbon-based composite electrode materials and have scored great successes, Zero-dimensional carbon nanomaterials with high specific surface area can provide flexibility to adjust porosity and obtain the optimal condition of respective electrolyte solution. One-dimensional nanostructures with high aspect ratio structure and excellent electronic or ionic transport properties can promote the charge transfer of supercapa-citor electrodes. For two-dimensional carbon nanomaterials, their high specific surface area, admirable conductivity and superb mechanical pro-perties make them a potential pseudo-supercapacitor and enhance the charge-discharge reaction kinetics between the supercapacitor electrodes. High-performance supercapacitor electrodes can be constructed by utilizing three-dimensional nanomaterials as templates and depositing pseudo-supercapacitor materials. This article summarizes the capacitive properties of transition metal oxide loaded on different dimensional carbon materials as electrode mate-rials of pseudo-supercapacitor, and overviews their disadvantages in energy storage and future research directions, in order to provide a refe-rence for preparing a high-performance, environmental-friendly and long-life supercapacitor.