Taking the carbon foams obtained by carbonization of loose medium component separated from coal as raw material, activated carbon foams (ACFs) were prepared by using a KOH-activation method. The influences of the specific surface area of carbon materials and the pore size distribution type of meso/micropores with the size of below 5 nm on the electrochemical performance were analyzed by a combination of electrochemical tests and literature data. The pore size distribution type of meso/micropores is concluded as the primary factor influencing the electrochemical performance. The results showed that three pore size distribution types of meso/micropores with the size of below 5 nm could be identified, i.e. continuous mountain-like type, discontinuous peak-like type, and homogeneous dispersed type. The ACF samples of mountain-like type had relatively higher specific surface area and specific capacitance (usually above 2 000 m2/g and 180 F/g, respectively), while those of peak-like type and homogeneous dispersed type had relatively lower specific surface area and specific capacitance (below 1 500 m2/g and 150 F/g, respectively). When the pore size distribution of meso/micropores with the size of below 5 nm was the peak-like type, the specific capacitance of the ACF samples remained essentially unchanged with the specific surface area, indicating that the specific surface area was not the dominated factor for the specific capacitance. When the pore size distribution was the mountain-like type, an essentially linear correlation was observed between the specific capacitance and the specific surface area, indicating that the specific surface area became the dominated factor for the specific capacitance. The underlying mechanism was attributed to the difference in pore structures of different pore size distribution types and thereby the transfer resistance of the electrolytes. That is, for example, the abrupt change in pore size at the connecting points of hierarchical pores of peak-like type would lead to high transfer resistance for the electrolytes, thus inhibiting the further transfer of the electrolytes. However, the hierarchical pores of mountain-like type had relatively smooth change of pore diameters with low transfer resistance, enabling the electrolytes to move towards deep/inner positions of the pores. The peak-like type of carbon materials usually showed higher utilization efficiency of specific surface area (the specific capacitance per unit surface area was around 8-50 μF/cm2), and generally decreased with increasing the specific surface area; however, the mountain-like type showed relatively lower utilization efficiency of specific surface area (the specific capacitance per unit surface area was around 3.5-11.0 μF/cm2). When the peak-like type of carbon materials had high values of specific surface area, the pore depth was relatively large, and the pore number was relatively small, therefore resulting in the decrease of the Warburg impedance (Z45) which could reflect the transfer resistance of electrolytes. The mountain-like type had similar depth of pores, leading to the similar transfer resistance of electrolytes for single pore and thereby similar Z45single. The value of Z45 decreased with the increase of micropore volume, theoretically according to the equation of Z45=Z45single/N where N represented the micropore number.