Quasi-solid capacitor composed of polymer gel electrolytes are thinner, lighter, cheaper, and more flexible. They can be used as energy devices for wearable and portable electronic devices, and have a very broad application prospect. In this work, the ionogel electrolyte separator was constructed by a simple solution casting method with silicon dioxide nanoparticles as filler. The effects of silicon dioxide nanoparticles on the ion transport were exploited. Based on the ionogel electrolyte separator, a quasi-solid capacitor was constructed, and the influence of silicon dioxide nanoparticles on the performance of the capacitor was evaluated. The electrolytes with different amounts of silicon dioxide were studied. The results showed that the addition of silicon dioxide did not change the microscopic morphology of the ionogel electrolyte, but it effectively improved the wettability and the ionic conductivity of the electrolyte. The electrochemical performance of the electrolyte with high silicon dioxide addition was more beneficial. The electrolyte exhibited the most excellent ionic conductivity when 8wt% silicon dioxide was added. Quasi-solid electric double layer capacitors were assembled using activated carbon as the electrodes and ionogel electrolyte as the separator. Because silica dioxide effectively promoted ionic conductivity and reduced electrolyte internal resistance, the addition of silicon dioxide improved the performance of activated carbon quasi-solid capacitor effectively, the specific capacitance increased nearly 15%. After 4000 cycles, the device's specific capacity was maintained at 100%. Due to the excellent high temperature stability of the electrolyte, the quasi-solid capacitor maximum operating temperature up to 60℃. The specific capacitance of the device gradually increased with increasing temperature, and the energy density reached 81.36 Wh/kg at 60℃. This work provided an effective guidance for constructing a complex ionogel electrolyte-based quasi-solid supercapacitor.