Micro and nanoporous carbon materials are critical for many innovative engineering applications. Such complex multi-scale porous materials have a confined fluid in the pore void: an electrolyte in the case of batteries and super-capacitors, molecular fluids (CH4, water, CO2) in the case of charcoal. The question that engineering scientists need to address today is how to integrate the physics of the fluid and solid behavior and their interactions into predictive engineering approaches. In this paper, I present how quantum and statistical physics concepts and methods can be used to put such porous carbon materials "under the nanoscope" that is, allowing the assessment of the sought behavior at nanoscales aiming at bridging to engineering applications. I first illustrate this approach by showing how to get realistic samples of porous carbon replica from porous oxides (zeolites) as new forms of porous carbons with ordered texture along with disordered forms such as saccharose cokes. Then I go on with presenting how quantum chemistry methods can be used to nail down fundamentals interaction processes for H2 adsorption. Once these relevant interactions are known, I will show their implementation in a grand canonical Monte-Carlo approach and their application in the case of H2 storage in alkaline doped version of these porous carbons. These are also experimentally and industrially considered as electrode materials in electrochemical energy storing devices (supercapacitor and batteries). I will present the first results on electronic conductivity of these new forms of porous carbons for different polarization conditions and show the importance of texture properties on ē-conductivity. Finally, addressing the influence of simple gases adsorption on the mechanical properties of these porous matrices, I will show how CO2 adsorption process significantly competes with the matrix elastic energy and can affectively reduce CO 2 sequestration in charcoal mines.Copyright © 2011 by World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd.