This paper deals with hybrid energy storage system (HESS) management strategies, optimized for urban road electric vehicle applications. These new control strategies aim to extend battery pack durability by reducing charging/discharging current peaks by means of supercapacitors. The optimization is carried out with reference to the case study of a HESS composed of a high power unit, i.e. supercapacitor module plus a high energy unit, i.e. a battery pack, based on nickel-chloride ZEBRA (ZEolite Battery Research Africa) technology. On-board integration of the two storage devices is obtained through a DC/DC bidirectional power converter, as this configuration is particularly convenient for many kinds of urban vehicle operations. The novelty of this work consists in an analytical methodology, based on non-linear programming and calculus of variations theory, to evaluate management strategies characterized by high effectiveness in reducing battery current transients. The identification and optimization of these strategies are initially performed on the basis of a vehicle model, built in the Matlab-Simulink simulation environment. To this purpose, the experimental characterization of the supercapacitor module is obtained with reference to three different models, whose selection depends on the required fitting performance and computational effort indexes, as evaluated in the paper. The energy management strategies identified show promising results in the simulation environment, followed by experimental activities carried out by means of a dedicated 1:1 scale laboratory test bench. The various experimental results presented in this manuscript highlight that the identified λ-control strategy presents effectiveness values up to 57%, close to the ideal results obtained in the simulation environment. In fact, the methodology proposed in this paper, validated by laboratory experiments, definitely reduces the negative consequences of power peaks on the HESS, indicating the real possibility of using these results in the design and control of urban road vehicles.