The worldwide energy scarcity arising from the massive consumption of nonrenewable energy sources raised a global awareness of the need for cleaner and affordable energy solutions to mitigate climate change and ensure the world sustainable development. The rise of the Internet of Things and the fast growth of the groundbreaking market of wearable electronics boosted a major quest for self-powered technologies merging energy harvesting and energy storage functionalities to meet the demands of a myriad of market segments, such as healthcare, transportation, defense and sports. Thermoelectric devices are a green energy harvesting solution for wearable electronics since they harness the low-grade waste heat from ubiquitous thermal energy sources and convert it into electrical energy. However, these systems generate electrical energy in an intermittent manner, depend on the local heat release availability and require an additional unit to store energy. Flexible and wearable supercapacitors are a safe and eco-friendly energy storage solution to power wearables, offering advantages of security, longer cycle life, higher power density and faster charging over batteries. However, an additional unit that generates energy or that is able to charge the storage device is required. More recently, a new class of all-in-one thermally-chargeable supercapacitors blossomed to meet the requirements of the next generation of autonomous wearable electronics and ensure an endurable energy supply. This self-chargeable hybrid technology combines the functionalities of thermal energy harvesting and supercapacitive energy storage in a single multitasking device. In thisPerspective, the advances in the burgeoning field of all-in-one thermally-chargeable supercapacitors for flexible/wearable applications will be critically examined, ranging from their structure and working principle to the rational design of the composing materials and of tailor-made architectures. It will start by introducing the foundations of single flexible/wearable thermoelectric generators and supercapacitors and will evolve into the pioneering venture of fully-integrated thermal energy harvesting/storage systems. It will end by highlighting the current bottlenecks and future pathways for advancing the development of this sophisticated smart technology.