The aim of the work is to analyze the stability of the battery-supercapacitor hybrid storage of power supply for resistance micro-welding equipment, considering the possible variation of the system parameters and taking into account parallel series resistance of the circuit components. Methodology. The sufficient accurate mathematical model of the hybrid energy storage system to stability analysis has been obtained by the state-space average method. According to the state-space averaging method, PWM switching converters are described by separate circuit topologies for each switching period. The system of differential equations for each time interval has been derived by use of the Kirchhoff rules. The small-signal model transfer function of the SEPIC converter has been obtained by applying the Laplace transform to linear state equations averaged over one switching cycle. Finally, the Nyquist stability criterion has been considered to evaluate the stability of the proposed energy storage system. Results. Bode diagrams of an open-loop system for different values of the duty cycle, average load current, and input voltage have been obtained by using MATLAB software. The gain margin ranges from 14.6 dB to 26.4 dB and the phase margin ranges from 45.4 degrees to 54.8 degrees. From these results, it is obvious that the proposed system meets the stability criteria regardless of the aforementioned parameter fluctuations. Originality. The high-efficiency energy storage system for micro resistance welding technology has been proposed. Developing of the energy storage system according to the battery semi-active hybrid topology enables to control the Li-ion battery discharge current within the maximum allowable value. SEPIC converter utilization ensures the high-efficient operation of the power supply despite the battery charge state. Moreover, this topology allows implementing series and parallel configuration of both batteries and supercapacitors to obtain the required value of voltage and current. Practical significance. The mathematical model of the SEPIC converter has been developed by applying the state-space averaging technique. The stability analysis for parameter variation, such as duty cycle and the average load current, the input voltage has been performed by using Nyquist criteria. References 10, tables 1, figures 8.