MXenes are potentially described as a “wonder material” in the class of 2D nanomaterials. Since their discovery in 2011, MXenes have been researched and developed for almost a decade. The synthesis methods are not only limited to HF etching; novel approaches, such as water-free etching and molten salts etching, have also been developed, thus endowing MXenes with multifunctional surface chemistry, structure, and coveted properties. Owing to their excellent electrochemical performance, MXenes can be used as promising materials for energy devices, especially flexible electronic devices. Here, the recent progress in the synthesis of MXenes and their application in flexible electronic devices are summarized. This will shed new light on industrial-scale synthesis of MXenes. Insights into the challenges, outlook, and future prospects with regard to MXene-based devices are discussed. Wearable devices such as micro-supercapacitors, nanogenerators, and sensors can be used in almost every aspect of our life. However, current progress with flexible wearable electronics is still at an early stage of development. Owing to their excellent electrochemical performance, MXenes can be used as promising materials for flexible electronic devices. A detailed summary of the rapid development of MXene-based electronic devices is necessary. Hence, recent progress in the application of MXenes in flexible electronic devices is presented. MXenes (e.g., transition metal carbides, nitrides, and carbonitrides) have penetrated in diverse fields of research as wonder materials. The most attractive features of their applications show great promise in energy storage conversion, harvesting, and sensing. Here, the synthesis and novel fabrication techniques of MXenes are introduced, and conventional etching procedures are revisited. Tailoring hybrid mechanisms for MXenes to fine-tune their electronic and chemical properties are discussed in this review. Because of their unique layered structures and intriguing functional properties, MXenes serve as key components in a variety of flexible devices such as supercapacitors, triboelectric nanogenerators, and sensors. Finally, the challenges related to MXenes-based flexible electronics are presented, and viable solutions to overcome the shrouding issues are presented. This provides an insightful outlook for the future development of flexible and wearable applications of MXenes.