Reduced graphene oxide (RGO) is a member of the family of graphene materials. RGO is characterized by a larger number of structural defects compared to graphene. The slightly lower conductivity is compensated by fascinating chemical flexibility enabling numerous possibilities of chemical modification. Reduction of graphene oxide can be carried out by chemical or electrochemical methods. Reduction of graphene oxide increases its electric conductivity, but it removes oxygen functional groups, which are useful for example for binding of biomolecules. Removing the oxygen functionalities also changes the hydrophobic/hydrophilic characteristics of the surface, which in turn influences the orientation of adsorbing species. The orientation of biomolecules is particularly important for construction of enzymatic electrodes, since the orientation with the active site toward the surface enables the direct electron transfer between the enzyme and the electrode. It has also been shown that phenolic groups of graphene oxide can be oxidized with the help of redox enzymes-like laccase or horseradish peroxidase. The surface groups can thus play a role of the mediator in reactions catalyzed by immobilized enzymes. Complete reduction of graphene oxide might be thus disadvantageous. Electrochemical reduction of graphene oxide enables a relatively easy way to control the surface composition. In case of the chemical reduction, the choice of the reducing agent and the reaction conditions are the manner of optimizing of reduced graphene oxide for bioelectronic applications. In this chapter, we are going to survey the methods of synthesis of reduced graphene oxide and methods of the characterization of the product. The infrared and Raman spectra of reduced graphene oxide will be discussed. The goal of the discussion is to emphasize the relation between the method of the graphene oxide reduction and the properties of the resulting material. Finally we are going to discuss the role of graphene oxide in immobilization of enzymes and other biologically important molecules, nanoparticles for sensors, biofuel cell, and supercapacitor applications. We will also address applications of reduced graphene oxide for drug delivery and tissue engineering.