The two-dimensional titanium carbide MXene (Ti3C2Tx) acts as a promising pseudocapacitive material for supercapacitor electrodes. In this paper, the properties of vanadium-doped titanium carbide MXene (Ti3C2Tx) are tuned using a simple hydrothermal method to intercalate the alkali metal adsorbates (K+) into the electrode material. The synthesis of the supercapacitor device is carried on glass substrate as well as on a flexible graphite sheet. The X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy are conducted to observe the change in structural properties of vanadium-doped MXene. The cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge–discharge are carried out on Metrohm autolab workstation. The ratio of ammonium vanadate and MXene has been varied from 0.025:0.1 to 0.1:0.1 with a step size of 0.025 to obtain the capacitance results. The results depict that the ratio of 0.025:1 shows the highest capacitance of 258.07 mF/cm2 and 1107 mF/cm2 in 6 M KOH (20 mV/s) on glass and graphite substrate, respectively. This is mainly because the ratio of 0.025:1 provides the maximum exfoliation which allows electrolyte ions to penetrate in the active material and thus, facilitates fast electron transport resulting in high-performance supercapacitors. Further, this paper also discusses the successful fabrication of the supercapacitor devices on a flexible graphite sheet for the first time. The results show that the capacitance value on flexible substrate is at par with that of the glass substrate. To further understand the increased capacitive properties of vanadium-doped MXene, the processes involving charge transfer and mass transport are investigated by performing electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The radius on the EIS plot of vanadium-doped MXene is smaller than that of the undoped DMSO MXene, which indicates that the vanadium doping made the charge transfer easier. Moreover, the capacitance retention of 92.7% and 82.2% is achieved on graphite as well as glass substrate after 3000 cycles.