Demand of wearable, portable, lightweight, foldable and eco-friendly electronics is enlarged, and compatible energy storage systems is a prominent topic of research. Highly cost efficient and foldable energy storage systems should be mounted on wearable, foldable and portable electronics. Current fabrication techniques of typical electronic systems are complex and expensive. To address these requirements, paper based foldable and easy go designed supercapacitor-based energy storage devices are suggested and reported. Electrochemical supercapacitors (ESCs) could store charges without chemical reaction and have fast charging/discharging speed. We reported an electric three-layer capacitor fabricated using aluminum foil-based electrodes on baking papers. Low cost and solvent free bench top fabrication process includes direct deposition of aluminum foil using gum on baking paper is demonstrated. Four layers of aluminum foil are stacked on baking paper to achieve high energy storage capability. This aluminum foil based layered structure gives us high conductivity and reliable charging/discharging properties. This device exhibits an excellent cyclability (>5,000 cycles). Device having minor retention in performance under continuous dynamic operations of forceful bending at different angles. The design concept is based on folding-cutting-pasting procedure that provides us flexible production protocol to design and manufacture supercapacitors with adaptable electrical characteristics and configurations. Baking paper is biopolymer-based substrate and can store 0.72 mJ energy. The Electrochemical supercapacitors are based on aluminum foil electrodes on baking paper with gum, so there can realize foldable, eco-friendly, ultra-low cost and easy go designed energy sources for foldable, portable, flexible, wearable and green electronics in the future. Electrochemical supercapacitors could be able to store energy generated from small portable energy generators like triboelectric Nanogenerators for portable, flexible and wearable electronic systems.