The objective of this study is to produce and test the hybrid valve-regulated Ultrabattery designed specifically for hybrid-electric vehicle duty, i.e., high-rate partial-state-of-charge operation. The Ultrabattery developed by CSIRO Energy Technology is a hybrid energy-storage device, which combines an asymmetric supercapacitor, and a lead-acid battery in one unit cells, taking the best from both technologies without the need for extra, expensive electronic controls. The capacitor will enhance the power and lifespan of the lead-acid battery as it acts as a buffer during high-rate discharging and charging. Consequently, this hybrid technology is able to provide and absorb charge rapidly during vehicle acceleration and braking. The work programme of this study is divided into two main parts, namely, field trial of prototype Ultrabatteries in a Honda Insight HEV and laboratory tests of prototype batteries. In this paper, the performance of prototype Ultrabatteries under different laboratory tests is reported. The evaluation of Ultrabatteries in terms of initial performance and cycling performance has been conducted at both CSIRO and Furukawa laboratories. The initial performance of prototype Ultrabatteries, such as capacity, power, cold cranking and self-discharge has been evaluated based upon the US FreedomCAR Battery Test Manual (DOE/ID-11069, October 2003). Results show that the Ultrabatteries meet, or exceed, respective targets of power, available energy, cold cranking and self-discharge set for both minimum and maximum power-assist HEVs. The cycling performance of prototype Ultrabatteries has been evaluated using: (i) simplified discharge and charge profile to simulate the driving conditions of micro-HEV; (ii) 42-V profile to simulate the driving conditions of mild-HEV and (iii) EUCAR and RHOLAB profiles to simulate the driving conditions of medium-HEV. For comparison purposes, nickel-metal-hydride (Ni-MH) cells, which are presently used in the Honda Insight HEV, have also been subjected to some of the above profiles (i.e., simplified discharge and charge profile and EUCAR profile). Although the Ultrabattery and a Ni-MH cell under EUCAR test profile are still on cycling, the outcomes to date show that the performance of these batteries and cells has been at least four times longer than that of the state-of-the art lead-acid cells or batteries. Excitingly, the performance of Ultrabatteries is proven to be comparable with that of the Ni-MH cells. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.