The supercapacitor is a new generation charge storage device, which can satisfy the demand of huge energy and power density. First-generation supercapacitor deals with an electric double-layer capacitor (ELDC) and pseudocapacitor electrode material, which suffers from their limitations of low energy density and stability. To develop a high-performance supercapacitor, a second-generation hybrid supercapacitor device comes into play. Various combinations of assembly and composite electrode materials are designed, which can deliver a high energy and power density along with high rate capability and cyclic stability. Among various hybrid supercapacitors, this chapter deals with the composite electrode materials, which can overcome the limitation of individual components and enable large amounts of charge storage. The composite material is a combination of transition metal oxide serving the role of a pseudocapacitive material and activated carbon as EDLC material. Activated carbon shows good conductivity along high surface area and porosity. The main advantages of using activated carbon are tuneable porosity and low cost; however, capacitance is restricted to the surface of the electrode that is responsible for delivering low capacitance value. Nowadays, activated carbon has been synthesized using various biomasses and biowastes, which further extend the availability of cost-effective starting materials for the synthesis of activated carbon. On the other hand, transition metal oxide shows multiple oxidation states, which participate in Faradaic redox reaction delivering high capacitance however, unable to express high cyclic stability due to poor conductivity. Transition metal oxide and activated carbon composite overcome the limitations of individual components as metal oxide can reside in carbon matrix providing electrical conductivity to the electrons generated during redox reaction from the metal oxides. The large specific surface area of activated carbon and Faradaic redox reaction in metal oxide are expected to deliver excellent electrochemical performance in the device.