Two dimensional (2D) microstructure materials have attracted considerable attention due to their short-diffusion path length and large interfacial areas for hybrid supercapacitors (HSCs) in recent years. In the typical layered metal chalcogenides family, tin sulfide (SnS2) is one of the important binary compounds explored for energy storage applications. A reasonable construction of a 2D microstructure for HSCs is proposed. The structural study revealed the nanorods-like morphology with high purity and crystallinity of the sample. The 2D SnS2 nanorods were synthesized through a controlled strategy and tested as an active electrode material for HSCs. The electrochemical properties of SnS2 nanorods were examined through different experimental measurements, including both two- and three-electrode systems. In a three-electrode system, the as-synthesized 2D SnS2 nanorods exhibit superior electrochemical properties with a specific capacitance of (270 F g−1 at 10 mVs−1, and 162.2 F g−1 at 3 A g−1) and excellent cycling stability (9% capacitance loss after 8000 repeated CV cycles), due to efficient ion transport between the electrolyte to the active electrode, and charge transport between electrode and current collector, respectively. More importantly, aqueous HSCs were assembled using 2D SnS2//rGO as positive and negative electrodes operating in a wide and stable potential window up to 1.6 V in 1 M NaOH electrolyte. Moreover, HSCs deliver a high specific capacitance of (108 F g−1 at 5 mVs−1, and 92.4 F g−1 at 1 A g−1), a high specific energy of 32.8 Wh kg−1 along with excellent electrochemical stability (93% retention after 4000 cycles) due to the morphology assisted activity and unique structure of the electrode material. Additionally, we demonstrated the single HSC cell which provided sufficient energy to turn on a red LED of 20 mW and emit light over a certain period of time opens up possible realistic applications. The results manifest that the proposed hydrothermal assisted synthesis has promising applications in producing high-performance energy storage devices.