The rapid development of the global economy inevitably caused the rapid consumption of fossil resources and serious environmental pollution problems. Thus, the clean production and effective storage of sustainable energy have become one of the urgent problems to be solved. Among the new developed energy sources, solar energy, wind energy, and water energy are considered to be the most promising green energy sources, but the storage and conversion technologies of these energy sources limit their larger-scale applications. In recent years, supercapacitors have attracted great attention in electrochemical energy storage devices due to their outstanding characteristics such as high power density, ultra-fast charge and discharge characteristic and high stability. The energy storage performance of supercapacitors is mainly dependent on the electrode materials. Among the current developed electrode materials, porous carbon materials received more attention because of their excellent electrical conductivity, well-developed pore characteristics, and adjustable morphology structures. Traditional carbon materials are always developed into microporous materials to have a large specific surface area, but this kind of porous carbon also have some unavoidable deficiencies, such as low pores utilization, clogged pores, and large resistance. In order to avoid the defects of single-pore carbon materials in the application process, many researchers are working on the development of hierarchical porous carbon materials with micropores, mesopores and macropores. In this review, the several advanced synthetic strategies of hierarchical porous carbon materials were present in detail through analyzing relevant domestic and foreign literatures. The corresponding formation mechanisms, advantages, challenges and prospects of each method were briefly introduced, and the methods for improving capacitance performance of hierarchical porous carbon material were also summarized. This provides fundamental insight and offers important guidelines for the future design of hierarchical porous carbon and its application in energy storage.