Macroscopic assembly can create advanced materials with hierarchical structure and translate the properties of individual building blocks into ensembles for specific applications. Here, we demonstrate the fabrication of freestanding graphene oxide (GO) films composed of only two Langmuir-Blodgett-induced monolayers under the synergy of wrinkled GO nanosheets and strong noncovalent interaction between GO and melamine. We found that the strongest noncovalent interaction ever measured (∼1 nN) was a synergistic effect of a charge-transfer interaction and hydrogen bonding. The as-obtained film delivered a large optical transmittance of 84.6% at 550 nm and a high mechanical strength of 45 MPa at a notable elongation of 3.5%. The reduced GO film, with a resistance of 420 Ω sq−1, exhibited excellent electromechanical stability for 10,000 cycles at a bend radius of 1.5 mm. With the merits of a unique structure and outstanding properties, such an ultrathin film demonstrates its potential in the application of all-solid-state flexible supercapacitors. All-solid-state supercapacitors are considered a state-of-the-art power supply for miniaturized electronic devices. Flexible, ultrathin graphene films, which have the excellent properties of individual graphene nanosheets and are lightweight because of their small thickness, are attractive when used as flexible power sources. However, it is still a great challenge to construct such graphene assemblies because of the lack of an efficient assembly method and strong interfacial interaction. In this work, we demonstrate the fabrication of freestanding, transparent, and ultrathin GO films with high mechanical and electromechanical performances based on strong noncovalent interactions between melamine and GO through a modified Langmuir-Blodgett strategy. Benefitting from ultrathin thickness, unique structure and mechanical and electrical properties, the reduced GO films obtained are highly competitive as all-solid-state flexible supercapacitors. Yu and colleagues have fabricated freestanding, highly transparent, ultrathin graphene films under the synergy of the unique wrinkled structure of GO nanosheets and strong noncovalent interaction between GO and melamine. The films exhibited excellent tailored behavior, mechanical properties, electromechanical stability, and flexible supercapacitor performance. The design and synthetic strategy in this work could promote the realization of next-generation mobile electronic devices.