New types of cation storage materials would show tremendous potential in the development of high-performance rechargeable energy storage devices. Herein, we develop layered double hydroxides (LDHs) as promising cation supercapacitor materials in aqueous and neutral operation, via an effective electrochemical activation strategy, for a reversible intercalation of a wide range of metal cations. These activated LDH materials exhibit overwhelming metal-ion storage capacities in aqueous electrolytes as a result of the phase transformation of LDH (repulsive to cations) to hydrogen-vacancy-enriched LDH (LDH-HV, attractive to cations) induced by the electrochemical activation process. The activated LDH-HV phase provides a two-dimensional open channel with abundant active sites (HV) for a reversible intercalation of metal ions, accounting for the significantly enhanced energy storage performance. This vacancy-induced cation intercalation into LDHs builds up a general approach for developing earth-abundant transition-metal resources as a prospective energy storage material toward a large variety of cation supercapacitors. The development of electrochemical energy storage materials based on cation intercalation has attracted considerable attention. To date, however, only a few candidates have been successively identified. Herein, we illustrate two-dimensional layered double hydroxides (LDHs) as promising cation supercapacitor materials via an electrochemical activation strategy for reversible intercalation of a wide range of metal cations (e.g., Li+, Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+, and Zn2+). These activated LDH materials exhibit largely enhanced metal-ion storage capacities in aqueous and neutral operation as a result of the phase transformation of LDHs (repulsive to cations) to hydrogen-vacancy-enriched LDHs (attractive to cations) induced by the electrochemical activation process. This work builds up a general approach for developing earth-abundant transition-metal resources as a promising energy storage material toward a large variety of cation supercapacitors. Layered double hydroxides (LDHs) have been developed as promising cation intercalation supercapacitor materials in aqueous and neutral operation via an effective electrochemical activation (ECA) strategy. The results show that the ECA process induces the formation of hydrogen vacancies (HV) on LDH host layers and extravasation of interlay anions, which provides a two-dimensional open channel with abundant active sites (HV) for a reversible intercalation of metal ions.