Uplifting of the Electrical vehicle technology allow drastic change toward the green energy system and make environment pollution free, although nowadays government taking many initiatives toward development of the Electric Vehicle (EV) technology and by 2030's electric vehicle should occupy all of the space of the Internal Combustion Engine (ICEs). EVs allow to move toward sustainability and also make environment free from carbon emission. As fossil fuel consumption is directly proportional to the amount of carbon emit into the environment. EVs work with the principle of the Electric system which can be directly link to the resources used in the generation of the electricity if the resources used to generate electricity could be renewable energy, then sustainability toward development of the environment pollution free can be attain 100 %. While discussing EVs give direct highlight on the Energy Storage and the type of energy storage using in the EVs. Generally, Lithium-Ion batteries increasing extensively in the EVs market due to their excellent performance. On the other hand, supercharge capacitor or ultra-capacitor also creating significant impact toward growth of the electric mobility market. As Ultra capacitor characteristic provide criteria to fit into the Electric mobility market such as high Efficiency, High Temperature stability, instantly charge and discharge without dropping in the performance. Generally, batteries have low specific power but high specific storage system can be attained with the implementation of the ultracapacitor to the Energy storage System and allow to develop the Hybrid topology of the Energy system which can be used to reduce the jerk load /power utilization in the vehicle in the terms of acceleration/deceleration and also flow of energy in the regeneration process. This paper provides an extensive implementation of the hybrid energy storage System (Battery along with Ultra capacitors)with regeneration of the energy toward energy storage.