Current progress in the advancement of energy-storage devices is the most important factor that will allow the scientific community to develop resources to meet the global energy demands of the 21st century. Nanostructured materials can be used as effective electrodes for energy-storage devices because they offer various promising features, including high surface-to-volume ratios, exceptional charge-transport features, and good physicochemical properties. Until now, the successful research frontrunners have focused on the preparation of positive electrode materials for energy-storage applications; nevertheless, the electrochemical performance of negative electrodes is less frequently reported. This review mainly focuses on the current progress in the development of tungsten oxide-based electrodes for energy-storage applications, primarily supercapacitors (SCs) and batteries. Tungsten is found in various stoichiometric and nonstoichiometric oxides. Among the different tungsten oxide materials, tungsten trioxide (WO3) has been intensively investigated as an electrode material for different applications because of its excellent charge-transport features, unique physicochemical properties, and good resistance to corrosion. Various WO3 composites, such as WO3/carbon, WO3/polymers, WO3/metal oxides, and tungsten-based binary metal oxides, have been used for application in SCs and batteries. However, pristine WO3 suffers from a relatively low specific surface area and low energy density. Therefore, it is crucial to thoroughly summarize recent progress in utilizing WO3-based materials from various perspectives to enhance their performance. Herein, the potential- and pH-dependent behavior of tungsten in aqueous media is discussed. Recent progress in the advancement of nanostructured WO3 and tungsten oxide-based composites, along with related charge-storage mechanisms and their electrochemical performances in SCs and batteries, is systematically summarized. Finally, remarks are made on future research challenges and the prospect of using tungsten oxide-based materials to further upgrade energy-storage devices.