Future NASA missions could include long duration flyby, orbital, lander, or rover applications where generating power from sunlight may be limited. Radioisotope Power Systems (RPS) provide a dependable power source for missions where inadequate sunlight or operational requirements make other power systems impractical. Over the past 16 years, NASA Glenn Research Center (GRC) has been supporting the development of RPSs. The Advanced Stirling Radioisotope Generator (ASRG) utilized a pair of Advanced Stirling Convertors (ASC). While flight development of the ASRG has been cancelled, much of the technology and hardware continued development and testing to guide future activities. Specifically, a controller for the convertor(s) is an integral part of a Stirling-based RPS. For the ASRG design, the controller maintains stable operation of the convertors, regulates the alternating current (AC) produced by the linear alternator of the convertor, provides a specified direct current (DC) output voltage for the spacecraft, synchronizes the piston motion of the two convertors to minimize vibration as well as manage and maintain operation with a stable piston amplitude and hot end temperature. It not only provides power to the spacecraft but also must regulate convertor operation to avoid damage to internal components and maintain safe thermal conditions after fueling. Lockheed Martin Coherent Technologies (LMCT) has designed, developed and tested an Engineering Development Unit Advanced Stirling Convertor Control Unit (EDU ACU) to support this effort. GRC used the ACU EDU as part of its non-nuclear representation of a RPS which also consists of a pair of Dual Advanced Stirling Convertor Simulator (DASCS), and associated support equipment to perform a test in the Radioisotope Power Systems System Integration Laboratory (RSIL). The RSIL was designed and built with flexibility to evaluate hardware utilizing RPS technology. The RSIL provides insight into the electrical interactions between as many as 3 radioisotope power generators, associated control strategies, and typical electric system loads. The first phase of testing included a DASCS which was developed by Johns Hopkins University/Applied Physics Laboratory and simulates the operation and electrical behavior of a pair of ASC's in real time via a combination of hardware and software. Testing included the following spacecraft electrical energy storage configurations: Capacitive, battery, and supercapacitor. Testing of the DASCS and ACU in each energy storage configuration included simulation of a typical mission profile, and transient voltage and current data during load turn-on/turn-off. Testing for these devices also included the initiation of several system faults such as short circuits, electrical bus over-voltage, under-voltage and a 'dead bus' recovery to restore normal power operations. The goal of this testing was to verify operation of the ACU(s) when connected to a spacecraft electrical bus. The results of these tests are presented here.