Energy storage devices with high cycle life, charge and discharge rate, power, and energy density are in great demand. Although batteries have been shown to provide high energy density, they have a limited power density and low cycle-life capability compared to capacitors. Electrochemical double-layer capacitors (EDLCs) or ultracapacitors provide the greatest potential to meet the combination of energy, power, and cycle life demands for a wide variety of applications. The main focus of our current ultracapacitor research is on increasing the capacitor energy density through the use of advanced nanostructured electrode materials combined with large voltage window electrolytes. We leveraged highly ordered anodic aluminum oxide templates to produce high-performance electrodes with a highly controlled morphology. This highly scalable approach provides a way to fabricate high-surface-area electrodes with uniform and highly aligned, vertically oriented carbon nanotubes. When used in combination with ionic liquid electrolytes that are highly chemically and electrochemically stable, EDLCs showed improved stability and efficiency compared to those using conventional, volatile organic solvent-based electrolytes. The use of ionic liquid electrolytes also enables operation at higher cell voltage than the conventional aqueous- or organic-solution-based capacitors, further increasing the capacitance. When compared to a traditional tetraethylammonium tetrafluoroborate salt in acetonitrile within an equivalent potential window, the selected ionic liquid, 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, showed comparable but slightly lower capacitance. The low viscosity of the conventional organic electrolyte wet the electrodes more quickly and easily than the higher viscosity ionic liquid. However, we developed conditioning processes to enhance the wetting, and ultimately, the ionic liquid electrolyte should outperform the acetonitrile-based electrolyte as a result of its greater stability and the use of the larger voltage window. We also discuss the future work of improving the wetting of the electrodes with ionic liquid.