Increasing the energy density of energy storage devices is currently the key target of many battery and supercapacitor research activities. For both types of devices, the electrochemical stability window (ESW) determines the effective energy density of the device. ESWs are defined by the effective oxidation and reduction potentials of the electrolyte, which are controlled by many various factors, including the HOMO/LUMO (highest/lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) energies of the electrolyte molecules, the nature of the electrode/electrolyte interphases, and other physicochemical properties. The concentration of the electrolyte would affect the HOMO/LUMO levels thus also change the ESW. A higher concentration of salt induces specific arrangements among the anion, cation, and solvent molecules of an electrolyte, altering the bulk behavior of the electrolyte, resulting in drastic change in the electrode interfaces. These uniquely modified physicochemical properties extend the ESW in several different ways, including the enhancement in the kinetic stability of the electrodes, as well as the thermodynamic and Nernst shifts of the oxidation/reduction potentials of the electrolyte. For organic electrolytes, it is the reduced amount of free solvent molecules that plays the key role in such changes; whereas for aqueous electrolytes, it is the scarcity of free water molecules and the reduced water activity that control the key properties of the electrolyte. In this review article, we focus on elucidating the fundamental structural changes occurring within an electrolyte system with increasing salt concentrations. The underlying mechanisms which not only facilitates the extension of the ESW, but also enables higher rate capabilities and mitigates aluminum dissolution for batteries with organic electrolytes, are meticulously explained. Further, we thoroughly discuss the importance of high-voltage stability in aqueous battery systems by exploiting the changed properties observed with higher concentrations of salts. To finish, high-voltage supercapacitors enabled by superconcentrated electrolytes are also explored.