The global increase in mobile technology usage has created a need for better energy storage systems. With standard batteries reaching their technological limits, alternate energy storage methods are gaining momentum. In this study, we demonstrate a cheap and efficient way of building from scratch high-performance supercapacitors based on graphene oxide (GO) functionalized with tetrapyrrole derivatives: porphyrins and phthalocyanines. We present supercapacitors with capacitances about 30 times larger than those of the pristine graphene oxide-based counterparts. Experimental characterisation methods including X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy (UV-VIS), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed correlations between the structural, magnetic, electronic and thermodynamic properties of these materials and their performance as supercapacitors. Electrochemical studies indicate the complex and versatile nature of capacitive effects associated with thin layers of supramolecular composites of graphene oxide. The electrical double layer (EDL) capacitance, cation intercalation and faradaic processes are coupled. Moreover, differences in the electronic interactions between GO and tetrapyrrolic modifiers have a profound effect on the observed capacitance. At the same time, these interactions are sufficiently weak to induce only subtle spectral changes, as well as a small increase of the interlayer distance as determined by XRD measurements. The present work offers a viable strategy for manufacturing high-performance supercapacitive materials that are superior to the state of the art nanocarbon-based supercapacitors using benign electrolytes in terms of capacitance per mass unit and have the potential for application in future green energy storage technologies. Our study provides insight into the multifarious origins of supercapacitance beyond the well-known EDL mechanism.