The rapid depletion of fossil fuel resources, along with rising energy consumption, has prompted the development of renewable energy storage systems. More focus must be placed on renewable and sustainable energy sources in order to reduce the reliance on fossil fuels for energy production. Because of their tremendous energy and great power density, batteries and supercapacitors are being intensively researched in renewable energy storage systems. In this work. We used a one-step simple hydrothermal approach to synthesize silver sulfide, cobalt sulfide, and their binary compound silver cobalt sulfide with a 50/50 weight ratio. X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) examined the materials' crystallinity and surface morphology. Electrochemical behavior of silver sulfide AgS (S1) cobalt sulfide CoS (S2), and silver cobalt sulfide (AgCoS) was investigated in the three-electrode assembly. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) and galvanostatic charge-discharge (GCD) have been carried out to explore its electrochemical characteristics. The electrochemical analysis reveals that silver sulfide AgS (S1) provides a specific of 402 C/g at 3 mV/s while cobalt sulfide CoS (S2) provides the specific capacity of 289C/g at 3 mV/s. when combined silver sulfide and cobalt sulfide in a 50/50 weight ratio specific capacity achieved with silver cobalt sulfide AgCoS (S3) is 701.01C/g at a low scan rate of 3 mV/s. An asymmetric device (AgCoS//AC) was developed by employing activated carbon as the negative electrode and the best silver cobalt sulfide as the positive electrode. This asymmetric supercapacitor has been investigated through CV, GCD, and stability tests for 1000 consecutive cycles. The device delivered a high energy density of 22.34 Wh/kg in parallel to the high power density of 899.2 W/kg. After 1000 consecutive cycles, the columbic efficiency of this device increases to 105% while maintaining capacity retention of 82%. This study indicates that silver cobalt can be an efficient electrode material for supercapattery devices.