Wood is a green, renewable, and abundant natural polymer material on the earth, which exhibits unique functional advantages including lightweight, easy processing, beautiful texture, environmental friendliness, etc. Formed through long⁃term biological evolution, wood has been widely used for furniture, building, energy, loading, new materials, and green chemicals, which has played an important role in social and economic development and pro⁃ gress. Based on wood properties and utilization, wood cell wall structure and performance are the key to achieve effi⁃ cient utilization of wood. Recently, various functional wood materials have been developed based on the wood cell wall functional modification, showing great potential application in energy efficient building, environmental protection, bioengineering and energy storage devices, which further promote the in⁃depth understanding of wood cell wall microstructure and wood functional modification technology. With the continuous consumption of non⁃renewable fossil energy and the deterioration of the ecological environment, the development of green and sustainable energy conversion and storage technology has become an inevitable trend of social development. According to the “carbon neutral” target, developing the wood⁃based electrodes with high energy density for the energy storage devices and the high⁃efficiency wood electrodes toward water splitting is of great significance to realize the green and sustainable ener⁃ gy development. As the substrate of wood⁃based electrodes, the carbonized wood with unique 3D hierarchical porous structure possesses the continuous electrons transfer through the cell wall and ions transport along the nanopores in the wood channels. Based on the relationship of “preparation⁃structure⁃function” for the wood cell walls, the methods of structural depolymerization, activate pore creation, and functional modification of wood cell wall via physical, chemi⁃ cal, and biological reactions were summarized, and the correlation mechanism between the structural and electroche⁃ mical properties of carbonized wood electrode were demonstrated. Based on the porous structure and adaptive thickness of wood electrodes, the importance of bulk wood for the preparation of thick electrode for supercapacitor with high en⁃ ergy density and high⁃power density was discussed. Meanwhile, the innovation of high⁃performance lithium oxygen battery and lithium sulfur battery preparation using the hierarchical porous wood as carrier were analyzed. Finally, the synergistic effects and technical advantages of natural wood as the substrate for hydrogen evolution reaction in water splitting were discussed based on the chemical affinity between wood and metal catalyst. Based on the above discus⁃ sion, the opportunities and challenges faced by wood as energy storage materials as well as the research direction that needs to be paid attention in the future were prospected.