In recent years, biomass⁃derived carbon materials received much attention as electrode materials due to their low cost, good chemical stability, high specific surface area and environmental friendliness. To date, they have shown great potential in electrical energy conversion and storage. However, their theoretical specific capacitance is limited. Be⁃ sides, the poor dispersion, poor refilling and multi⁃layer brittleness would hinder their actual applications in supercapaci⁃ tors. As a result, the supercapacitor devices based on the biomass⁃derived carbon materials usually suffer from low ener⁃ gy density. An effective way to solve this problem is to deposit the electrochemically active materials, such as MnO2, on biomass⁃derived carbon materials, including activated carbon, biochar, carbon aerogels and carbon fibers, etc. The biomass⁃derived carbon materials with abundant pore structures are excellent conductive substrate for the growth of MnO2 crystals. Due to the synergistic effect of biomass⁃derived carbon materials and MnO2, the composite materials have exhibited excellent conductivity, cyclic stability and electrochemical properties. The preparation methods of bio⁃ mass⁃derived carbon materials/MnO2 composite were reviewed and the structure and properties of MnO2were discussed. In addition, the research progress of biomass⁃derived carbon materials/MnO2 composites as electrode materials in super⁃ capacitors was also reviewed. Among them, the biomass⁃derived porous carbon/MnO2 composite showed high conduc⁃ tivity and large specific surface area. The biomass⁃derived biochar with inherited 3D pore structures and highly porous carbon aerogels are ideal conducive template to grow MnO2 nanocrystals and the obtained carbon/MnO2 composites showed high electrochemical performances. Besides, the flexible carbon fiber/MnO2 composite was considered as excel⁃ lent electrode materials in wearable supercapacitors. The current challenges in their potential applications were also dis⁃ cussed. Finally, it was put forward the focus and direction of future research of the biomass⁃derived carbon materials/MnO2 composite electrode materials, including the surface/interface modification of biomass carbon materials, the regu⁃ lation of MnO2 nanostructure and the optimization of supercapacitor's device structure.