Carbon is one of the most attractive elements in nature due to its various forms of sp, sp2 and sp3 hybridization. By refferring to its hybridizations, the isomer known as fullerene is the zero dimensional (0- D); nanotube is the one dimensional (1-D); graphite is the two dimensional (2-D) and diamond is the three dimensional (3-D) form of the carbon. Among them, 1-D carbon nanotubes (CNTs), which are a honeycomb lattice rolled into a cylindrical form of carbon atoms, have attracted more attention due to their unique properties such as high tensile strength and adjustable electrical conductivity. On the other hand, a single layer of graphite called as graphene, which forms a 2-D material, attracts considerable attention in recent years. These 2-D forms of carbon having hexagonal lattices are the unique two dimensional materials observed in nature. Graphene has superior features relative to silicon, since electrons can move hundred times faster than they do inside silicon. From this point of view, in the light of their promising properties, this chapter has been devoted to foreground some remarkable technological applications of carbon nanotubes and graphene in recent years. In accordance with this goal, we have reviewed the structural, electrical and mechanical properties of CNTs and Graphene in the first part of the chapter. The second part also covers some remarkable and recent technological applications of CNTs and Graphene based materials. Due to the remarkable properties of CNTs such as the small size, high strength, high electrical and thermal conductivity, CNT-based materials have promising potential for pressure, temperature, humidity, chemical gas and biological sensor applications. There are numerous works indicating that the electrical properties such as resistance, capacitance and impedance of Single Walled CNTs (SWCNTs) and Multi Walled CNTs (MWCNTs) are very sensitive for changing the gas concentration of atmosphere in ppm or ppb orders. On the other hand, graphene-based nanomaterials have been utilized on various energy related applications including solar cells, supercapacitors, batteries and fuel cells. For example, very recently it has been reported that the solar cell with a whisper-thin film of graphene overcomes the problem that solar cells produce no power when it is raining. In this context, we have especially focused on the sensor, energy storage and solar cell applications of CNTs and graphene-based materials in the second part of the chapter.