During the last decade, the scarcity of fossil fuels and the simultaneous increase of the greenhouse effect have stimulated intensive research on energy storage all around the world. Among the energy-storage devices available, supercapacitors (also called electrochemical capacitors) are the most efficient for high-power density applications. They are able to store and release energy in short time, being perfectly adapted for the quality of electricity required by hybrid and electric vehicles, tramways, diesel-engine starting, wind turbines, computers, lasers, and cranes. In the case of a hybrid vehicle, supercapacitors provide the peak power necessary during acceleration and recover the energy during deceleration and breaking. Fascinating carbons prepared by template processes have been extensively studied but their applications are limited because of the complicated production methods and relatively high cost. In this study, bamboo carbon, melamine and potassium carbonate were used as the precursor, nitrogen source and pre-activator, respectively, to successfully produce the nitrogen-doped bamboo porous carbon supercapacitor electrode materials through two-step activation processes. The morphology, structure, and chemical composition of the prepared electrode materials were characterized by scanning electron micrograph (SEM), transmission electron microscope (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). By adjusting the ratio of carbon and K2CO3, the electrochemical performance of the samples was optimized. The results showed that the optimized sample (NC-1) exhibited the clear mesopores and internal worm-like micropores, with 1 984.4 m2 / g BET surface area and 1.26 nm of average pore diameter. NC-1 had clear mesopores and internal worm-like micropores. The contents of nitrogen and oxygen in the carbon material were 2.20% and 4.65%, respectively, which was beneficial to increase the hydrophilicity and pseudocapacitance of the activated carbon surface, thereby improving its specific capacitance. According to the electrochemical performance test, the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curve of NC-1 had good symmetry and was approximately rectangular. Among them, a wide peak appeared in the low potential window, indicating that a redox reaction occurred, which was beneficial to the electric double layer effect of activated carbon by increasing the surface hydrophilicity and pseudocapacitance. The mass specific capacitance of this sample reached 224 F / g at 1 A / g, which was 86.7% higher than the control sample. The capacitance still remained 144 F / g as the current density increased to 50 A / g, and the capacitance retention of 93% over 5 000 cycles was also determined at 10 A / g, demonstrating the excellent electrochemical and stable cycle performance.