For the first time we report a simple synthetic strategy to prepare copper sulfide counter electrodes on fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) substrates using the inexpensive chemical bath deposition method in the presence of hydrochloric acid (HCl) at different deposition times. CuS nanoplatelet structures were uniformly grown on the FTO substrate with a good dispersion and optimized conditions. The growth process of the CuS nanoplatelets can be controlled by changing the deposition time in the presence of HCl. HCl acts as a complexing agent as well as improving S2- concentration against S atoms in this one-step preparation. The photovoltaic performance was significantly improved in terms of the power conversion efficiency (PCE), short-circuit density (Jsc), open-circuit voltage (Voc), and the fill factor (FF). The optimized deposition time of CuS 60 min resulted in a higher PCE of 4.06%, Jsc of 12.92 mA cm-2, Voc of 0.60 V, and a FF of 0.52 compared to CuS 50 min, CuS 70 min, and a Pt CE. The superior performance of the 60 min sample is due to the greater electrocatalytic activity and low charge transfer resistance at the interface of the CE and the polysulfide electrolyte. The concentration of Cu/S also had an important role in the formation of the CuS nanoplatelet structures. The optical bandgaps for the CuS with different morphologies were measured to be in the range of 1.98-2.28 eV. This improved photovoltaic performance is mainly attributed to the greater number of active reaction sites created by the CuS layer on the FTO substrate, which results large specific surface, superior electrical conductivity, low charge transfer resistance, and faster electron transport in the presence of HCl. Cyclic voltammetry, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and Tafel-polarization measurements were used to investigate the electrocatalytic activity of the CuS and Pt CEs. This synthetic procedure not only provides high electrocatalytic activity for QDSSCs but could also be a cost-effective way to fabricate flexible electrodes in dye-sensitized solar cells or supercapacitor applications.