To drive the next 'technical revolution' towards commercialization, we must develop sustainable energy materials, procedures, and technologies. The demand for electrical energy is unlikely to diminish over the next 50 years, and how different countries engage in these challenges will shape future discourse. This perspective summarizes the technical aspects of nanomaterials' design, evaluation, and uses. The applications include solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs), solid oxide electrolysis cells (SOEC), microbial fuel cells (MFC), supercapacitors, and hydrogen evolution catalysts. This paper also described energy carriers such as ammonia which can be produced electrochemically using SOEC under ambient pressure and high temperature. The rise of electric vehicles has necessitated some form of onboard storage of fuel or charge. The fuels can be generated using an electrolyzer to convert water to hydrogen or nitrogen and steam to ammonia. The charge can be stored using a symmetrical supercapacitor composed of tertiary metal oxides with self-regulating properties to provide high energy and power density. A novel metal boride system was constructed to absorb microwave radiation under harsh conditions to enhance communication systems. These resources can lower the demand for petroleum carbon in portable power devices or replace higher fossil carbon in stationary power units. To improve the energy conversion and storage efficiency, we systematically optimized synthesis variables of nanomaterials using artificial neural network approaches. The structural characterization and electrochemical performance of the energy materials and devices provide guidelines to control new structures and related properties. Systemic study on energy materials and technology provides a feasible transition from traditional to sustainable energy platforms. This perspective mainly covers the area of green chemistry, evaluation, and applications of nanomaterials generated in our laboratory with brief literature comparison where appropriate. The conceptual and experimental innovations outlined in this perspective are neither complete nor authoritative but a snapshot of selecting technologies that can generate green power using nanomaterials.