Electrified vehicles (EVs), including hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) and pure electric vehicles (PEVs), have shown substantial improvements of energy efficiency, emission reduction, and possible life-cycle cost saving over conventional vehicles solely powered by internal combustion engines (ICE). Progress on electrification of marine vessels has been made; however, the pace has been impacted by the different operational requirements of each type of vessel, relatively small batch of production, longer or varied lifetime, and complex design optimizations of the vessels’ electric propulsion system and energy storage system (ESS). In this work, the hybrid electric and pure electric propulsion system designs for lobster fishing boats are studied based on in-field acquired operation data. A new integrated marine propulsion system modelling and simulation method and software tools, and a dedicated mobile data acquisition system have been introduced to support the quantitative analyses of energy efficiency, emission reductions, and life-cycle costs of a new or retrofitted fishing boat with hybrid electric and pure electric powertrains, compared with the traditional ICE powered benchmark. Following the automotive industry’s model based design (MBD) approach, modelling and simulation of electrified fishing ships under the acquired operation profile in MATLAB/Simulink have been carried out. Series hybrid electric and pure electric powertrain system designs with powertrain component models and rule-based system control, including properly sized electric ESS with supercapacitor (SC) or battery, have been studied. The total CO2 equivalent or greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and life-cycle costs of various new, electrified boat propulsion system designs have been quantitatively evaluated against conventional ICE powered boat with both gasoline and diesel engines. The life-cycle costs of the competing powertrain systems include the investment costs, operation/energy-consumption costs, and the replacement costs of key powertrain components over a projected ten-year operation life. Both of the new hybrid electric and battery powered pure electric boat designs showed considerable GHG emissions reduction and favourable lifecycle cost saving. The study presents superior clean propulsion system solutions for lobster fishing boats with quantitative justification and detailed powertrain system and control system designs, forming the foundation for further research and development.