Transition metal carbonate hydroxide (CH) has been widely explored as a promising battery-type electrode for high-rate energy storage. However, its genuine active sites under realistic operating conditions remains elusive. Here, by virtue of the cutting-edge operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy, we unfold the dynamic evolution of the local electronic and geometric structures for the CH electrode upon cycling. Our results reveal that the irreversible redox of Co cations at the early stage of cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycling induces a phase transition in the NiCo CH nanowires forming oxygen vacancies-enriched NiCo layered double hydroxide (LDH) nanosheets with superior high-rate energy storage ability. Theoretical modeling demonstrates that the unsaturated 5-coordinated Co sites exhibit optimal redox reaction energy barrier and immensely promote the performance. These findings not only elucidate the electrochemical susceptibility of the Co-based carbonate hydroxide under operando conditions, but also highlight an electrochemical coordination-engineering strategy for the rational design of high-performance electrode. The transition-metal-based electrode is often expected to evolve dynamically under the reaction conditions of a functioning hybrid supercapacitor. Thus, it's fundamentally and practically important to identify the genuine active sites of these electrodes at work. Here, we uncover the dynamic reconstruction of carbonate hydroxide (CH) during cycling using operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy. We demonstrate that the Co sites in the NiCo CH electrode are susceptible to the electrochemical environment, which converts the NiCo CH nanowires into oxygen vacancies-enriched NiCo layered double hydroxide (LDH) nanosheets. Theoretical calculations complement our operando experiments and indicate that the optimized Co sites substantially reduce the energy barrier for the redox reaction. These findings highlight the significance of identifying and optimizing the real active sites upon device operation. Unveiling the genuine active sites of carbonate hydroxide (CH) under realistic operating conditions holds the key to its practical applications. Here, we reveal that the irreversible redox of Co cations in CH at the early stage of cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycling generates oxygen vacancies-enriched NiCo layered double hydroxide (LDH) nanosheets. Theoretical calculations validate the optimal redox reaction energy barrier of the unsaturated 5-coordinated Co sites. Such an electrochemical coordination-engineering strategy greatly inspires the rational design of high-performance electrode materials.