The present work is focused on probing the spin dynamics of PEG (polyethylene glycol)−400 coated Erbium substituted nanocrystalline CoFe2−xErxO4 (0.7≤ x≤0) by a novel method using FMR spectroscopy. The highest magnetization is achieved for the x = 0.3 which suggests that the optimized concentration of the doping improves the dc magnetic characteristics of the nanoferrites (NFs). The static magnetic measurement exhibits that all the sample compositions display ferromagnetic behavior with saturation magnetization and coercivity varying from 37 to 58 emu/g and 1147.80–2148.71 Oe, respectively. The enhancement of magnetic properties was observed due to the super-exchange interaction (SEI) of Er3+ to Fe3+ ion from their lattice sites. Further, the room temperature FMR spectra confirms the ferromagnetic behavior of NFs with resonance field from 2746.8 G for pure CoFe2O4 which reduces to for 1760.5 G for x = 0.5 samples which suggests that the samples magnetization fields can align more easily, and their dynamic response has improved. The broad linewidth indicates that the dipolar-dipolar interactions are more dominant as compared to the SEI. The super-exchange interaction dominants when the distance between the oxygen and magnetic ions decreases and their bond angle increases. A comprehensive structural modeling has been carried out by the Rietveld refinement to various structural parameters were calculated which has been corroborated with the static and dynamic magnetic properties. The resonance field of the Er3+doping causes a decrease in the resonance field in all the doped samples. This decrease in the resonance field can be attributed to the weak SEI between the magnetic ions (Fe3+-O- Fe3+) and (Fe3+-O-Er3+) at A and B sites. Further, the morphology, chemical bonding, and optical characteristics have been studied in detail using TEM, FTIR, and UV spectroscopy. The detailed experimental investigation of PEG-coated CoFe2−xErxO4 provides tunable spin dynamics and improves the saturation magnetization, which is a key parameter for spintronics, magneto-opto-electronics, EMI shielding, and supercapacitor applications.