Supercapacitors are commonly used for a guaranteed launch of diesel generators. However, the processes caused by the starting current until the starter shaft rotates are disregarded. The duration of this moment is short but its effect on the rechargeable battery, taking into consideration its service life, is significant. The shape of this pulse, its duration significantly depend on the ratio of system parameters: supercapacitor (rechargeable battery) – starter – diesel generator. A system of differential equations has been proposed to describe the compatible electromagnetic and electromechanical processes that occur when the starter of the diesel generator is powered from the supercapacitor. A charge is used as a variable quantity. The transitional processes occurring in the stationary starter rotor and the subsequent processes caused by the growth of the electromagnetic starter moment have been taken into consideration. This paper reports establishing those patterns that are related to the beginning of the starter movement, its entering the mode at the falling voltage of the supercapacitor, the exchange of electrical and magnetic energy accumulated in the inductive elements of the starter. Using the charge as a variable quantity has made it possible to combine the final values of the preceding process (stationary rotor) with the initial ones of the next one (output to starting speed). Thus, a mathematical notation has been derived that considers most of the parameters of the charge circle of the supercapacitor. The possibility of using an inflated voltage of the supercapacitor to increase the accumulated energy has been clarified. The processes have been theoretically substantiated, which makes it possible to use a small internal resistance of the starter circuit, the presence of inductive components, an abnormal capacity of the supercapacitor to form the desired shape of the electromagnetic moment. That would make it possible to take into consideration the specific requirements of various systems of guaranteed power supply