In view of the complex energy coupling and fluctuation of renewable energy sources in the integrated energy system, this paper proposes an improved multi-timescale coordinated control strategy for an integrated energy system (IES) with a hybrid energy storage system (HESS). The power response characteristics of various devices in IES at different time scales are analyzed which shows that the multi-timescale coordinated control method can be well coupled with the IES including HESS. The advantages of HESS over single energy storage system in stabilizing power fluctuation and extending energy storage life are compared and analyzed while the control method of supercapacitor under multi-time scale coordinated control strategy is proposed. The primary energy consumption, operating costs, carbon dioxide emissions and load shedding costs are considered the optimization objectives in the day-ahead rolling optimization stage according to the day-ahead forecast renewable energy (RE) data. In the intraday rolling adjusting stage, the proposed method can reduce the effect of the RE day-ahead forecasting errors to achieve the intraday energy scheduling balance and ensure the safe operation of the devices of IES. Considering the background of IES with a high proportion of renewable energy, this paper makes innovative use of the advantages of HESS to improve the power response characteristic of the system. The high-frequency part of RE is balanced by HESS in the real-time coordinated control stage. A typical structure of IES is applied and the simulation results are analyzed to show the performance of the proposed method in this paper. Moreover, general rules for sizing of HESS are also proposed. The influence of the hybrid energy storage capacity allocation ratio on battery capacity loss and carbon emission reduction is discussed. The Pareto front including the configuration and cost of supercapacitor has been obtained. As shown in the case, the application of HESS in the IES can improve the power response characteristic, extend the lithium-ion battery (LiB) life and has more benefits in reducing carbon emissions.