Interconnected LPWAN devices, which create the IoT, are usually powered by batteries that significantly limit their operational lifetime. The main disadvantage of batteries is that they must be periodically/manually replaced with new ones or recharged when they are depleted. This kind of maintenance increases the cost and restricts the large-scale deployments of these devices. Furthermore, wireless communication between distributed devices and gateways (or base stations) consumes a significant amount of energy, even more, if data has to be sent to a distance of several kilometers. When considering the limitations of battery power and long operating life, alternative energy sources, energy harvesting techniques, and power management strategies are required for LPWAN IoT devices to operate seamlessly and efficiently. Therefore, the development of energy-efficient solutions for such devices is a crucial issue. In this study, we designed and implemented an energy-aware system model to operate LPWAN IoT devices that have multiple wireless communication technologies (Wi-Fi, dual-mode Bluetooth, LoRa, SigFox, LTE-M) batteryless and maximize their operational lifetime in the IoT environment. We designed an energy harvesting system that couples a solar panel with a supercapacitor to achieve self-sustainability in a heterogeneous short-and long-range network and improve energy efficiency. We developed a power-aware software running on a MicroPython-enabled embedded operating system to manage the device power consumption by exploiting the power modes of the system hardware components. We performed a simulation based on a probabilistic sensing model to evaluate how the proposed method influences the overall energy efficiency of the LPWAN IoT network. In our experimental study and simulation, we demonstrated our system model saved energy in the solar-powered supercapacitor-operated LPWAN IoT device, and observed that the device operated well with low-power consumption without any performance degradation.