The proportion of the optical storage units based on virtual synchronous generator control in the power system has been gradually increasing. The different characteristics between the multiple optical storage units lead to certain coordination problems when they are running at the same time. For better implementation of virtual inertial control based on the optical storage units working together, this paper proposes a multi-optical storage unit cooperative control strategy that flexibly adjusts the virtual inertia of each unit. First of all, the power disturbances in the system is differentiated by the high-pass filtering and the sliding filtering waves. On the one hand, when there appear high-frequency disturbances, the supercapacitor is preferred to provide inertial support. When the capacity of the supercapacitor is insufficient, the storage battery and the supercapacitor are coordinated through coordinated adjustment of the virtual inertia. The output of each battery is distributed according to the differences in state of charge. On the other hand, the batteries are selected to provide the required inertial support when low-frequency disturbances occur. Considering the differences in the state of charge between the batteries and the capacity differences of the converters, a fuzzy control is introduced. On the basis of preventing the batteries from overcharging or discharging and protecting the safe operation of the converters, the fuzzy control can reasonably allocate the inertial support required by the system during the low-frequency disturbances so as to achieve the safe operation of each energy storage end and the system frequency stability. At the same time, a small-signal model of the multi-terminal system is established, which analyzes the influence of the main control parameters on the system stability using the root locus method. Finally, the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed coordinated control strategy are verified by the hardware-in-the-loop experimental platform.