With the rising need for energy resources, considerable work has done for building novel energy storage technologies. Supercapacitors (SCs) and batteries are a highly competitive choice for electrochemical energy storage devices (EESDs) due to their ultrahigh power density, improved rate capability, long-term cyclability, and remarkable safety. Because of their novel properties such as high mechanical flexibility, large specific surface area (SSA), chemical stability, and superior electric and thermal conductivities, graphene-based nanomaterials (NMs) have attracted considerable attention as alternative electrode materials for EESDs. Graphene is gaining a lot of interest since it has amazing qualities including 230 000 cm2 V-1 s-1 charge mobility, 3000 W m-1 K-1 thermal conductivity, 2.3% visible light absorption, 130 GPa mechanical strength, and 2600 m2 g-1 specific surface area (SSA). Mechanical exfoliation, reduction of graphene-oxide, chemical vapor deposition (CVD), and epitaxial growth of graphene-NMs are some of the synthetic procedures that can change these characteristics. Despite much effort, the detailed screening of high-performance electrode materials, such as graphene-based NMs, is still necessary. We covered the recent advancements in graphene-based NM research and development for high-performance batteries and SCs for specific applications in the next generation and smart electronics in this study. First, we discuss rechargeable batteries, a new-concept based on graphene with high energy density, longer life, improved safety, and shape-diversity capabilities in order to meet the needs of future electronics. Second, we discuss SCs for the present advanced nanotechnologies that outperform batteries with respect to power density, cyclability, quick charging/discharging rates capability, straightforward principles, high activity of the charge circulation, and low maintenance expenditure, including electrical double layer capacitors (EDLCs) and pseudocapacitors (PCs). Finally, graphene-based electrodes used in ESDs with their prospects and problems are briefly reviewed.