Two different samples of metakaolin one hardened by acid (10 M phosphoric acid) (MP) and another by alkali (Na2SiO3 of silica modulus 1.1) (MS) are reinforced with reduced graphene oxide (rGO) to form nanocomposites (MPr and MSr) and their macrostructural, microstructural and electrochemical properties are investigated. The presence of polymerised aluminosilicates and alumino-silico phosphates are conclusively proved from XRD. The FTIR spectral analysis of the composites and the synthesized cement were also performed. The results confirmed that the addition of an optimal dose of rGO at 2% does not affect the existing gel network of the final product. However, reinforcement by rGO improved the microstructure as seen from the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis of both MP and MS and also resulted in a strength gain of nearly to 10–12% at all ages of curing (1–28 days). The maximum compressive strength attained at 28 days curing in the MPr sample is 79.15 MPa. The electrochemical properties have been studied through cyclic voltammetry and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and the results are compared. CV curves are symmetrical but slightly deformed, which indicate a good capacitive behaviour. The specific conductance of MPr and MSr is 53.2 F/g and 42.5 F/g, respectively, which is comparatively higher than that of the geopolymer cement, MP (48.27 F/g) and MS (37.5 F/g). The performance of phosphoaluminate sample is better than the alkali-activated sample due to multiple ionic compositions that form Al–O–P units and Si–O–T (T = Si, Al, P) in the network. The conductive mechanism is predominantly governed by ion drift which can be explained through electrolyte distribution in the matrix via pore/channels in addition to fast conducting H+ ions in the phosphoaluminate. The synergistic effect of rGO–metakaolin geopolymers with a desirable compressive strength balanced by good electrochemical properties gives the newly formed material greater potential for energy storage applications.