Taixi anthracite was used as a carbon source in this paper to obtain coal-based carbon quantum dots (CB-CQDs) through a chemical oxidation method. The impacts of mass concentration and drying method on the morphology of the resulting CB-CQDs were systematically explored. Furthermore, CB-CQDs with a mass concentration of 10 g/L were prepared in this paper using both freeze-drying and oven-drying methods, which were then carbonized at a high temperature to prepare the derived carbon used in supercapacitors. The findings demonstrate that, under freeze-drying conditions, the morphology of CB-CQDs follows a "point-line-surface" trend with increasing mass concentration, whereas when subjected to oven-drying, CB-CQDs with different mass concentrations all exhibit a three-dimensional massive structure. According to the characterization results, the morphology of carbon derived from CB-CQDs under freeze-drying conditions is a two-dimensional flake structure with a specific surface area of 268. 8 m"/g and porosity of 19. 1%. However, oven-drying can cause the agglomeration of CB-CQDs, which leads to the contraction of the derived carbon into dense blocks. This makes it difficult to remove oxygen-containing functional groups and then form pores, resulting in carbon derived from CB-CQDs with a lower specific surface area of 192. 5 irr/g, a mesopore rate of 8. 9%, and a high content of C^O and COOH. Meanwhile, the electrochemical performance test results show that the two-dimensional sheet structure and high porosity of the derived carbon under freeze-drying condition contribute to its favorable rate performance. Although the initial specific capacitance is only 115. 5 F/g, it has a capacity retention rate of 71. 5% at 20 A/g. On the other hand, the high content of oxygen-containing functional groups in the derived carbon under oven-dying condition leads to its higher pscudocapacitance, resulting in a higher specific capacitance of 132. 4 F/g at 0. 5 A/g current density and 90. 3 F/g at 20 A/g.