Supercapacitors, also called electrical double layer capacitors (EDLCs), are attracting significant attention because of their fast charge/discharge capability, long cycle lives and are potentially applied for the electrical vehicles, airplanes as well as satellites. Aiming at light weight structure design, the concept of structural supercapacitors is introduced. These devices are multifunctional composites storing (and delivering) electrical energy whilst carrying mechanical loads simultaneously. To realize the structural supercapacitors, solid state electrolytes are utilized because which could usually avoid safety issues. Additionally, the devices are free from coarse container, which is important for the light weight structures. Li1.4Al0.4Ti1.6(PO4)3 (LATP) solid electrolyte is used for the present work, due to its high ionic conductivity at ambient temperature, stability against ambient atmosphere and convenience of producing. The LATP was synthesized by sol-gel process following with a sintering process at 950°C, which results in specimen in pellet form. 90 nm gold layers was deposited on both round surfaces of pellets serving as electricity collector. After that, specimens were integrated in two different composite systems respectively: A. polyester fleece laminates injected by flow resin RTM-6; b. fibre reinforced epoxy resin fabricated by glass fibre prepreg material. The multifunctional properties of the embedded composites were characterized by electrical measurements, mechanical tests and coupling tests. For electrical measurements: Cyclic voltammetry was utilized for capacitance measurements of all types of devices; galvanostatic charge-discharge test for the cyclic stability measurements of the devices; electrochemical impedance spectroscope was used to describe the electrochemical process in the system and calculate the equivalent system resistance. For mechanical tests: four point bending test revealed the influence of LATP embedding on flexibility of composite materials, tensile test showed the adjunction condition between LATP and composite materials. For coupling test, step load test displayed the influence of mechanical loads on capacitance; charging-Tensile test exhibited the mechanical properties affected by electrical charging. The capacitance reduction of the LATP specimen after embedding is one of the largest challenges in the integration process. Many possible reasons for this capacitance reduction were firstly examined and the main cause was pointed out. The damaged junction between deposited gold layers and LATP after embedding leads to this reduction, which could be improved by applying platinum as collector material. To further enlarge the capacitance and meantime reduce resistance of the device, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) as electrode active materials were introduced into the LATP pellet. The first device type was in two-layer configuration consisting of one layer electrode (LATP/single-walled carbon nanotubes) and one layer separator (LATP). CNT contents, mixing process and electrode thickness are the three important factors to decide supercapacitive behavior of the two-layer devices. Three-layer devices were secondly investigated which were configured in sandwich structure: Two layers of electrode were separated by pure LATP layer. Three variates were investigated for demonstrating the three- layer behaviors: A. CNT contents in electrode, b. thickness of electrode, c. thickness of separator. The results of electrical measurements show that the supercapacitance could be improved by a. increasing CNT content, b. increasing thickness of electrode, c. reducing thickness of separator layer. In addition, aiming at cost reduction, the feasibility of using multi-walled CNT as electrode active material was also taken into account by executing electrical measurements as well as mechanical tests. The results could be concluded as the capacitance is limited by its lower surface area and mechanical stability is on the other hand not as good as by using sing-walled CNT.