Demand for electric vehicles (EVs) are increased because of flexible, easy to handle, and more powerful energy storage (ES) systems. In electric vehicles, the driving motor would run by energy storage systems. It is necessary to recognize energy storage technologies' battery lifetime, power density, temperature tolerance, and flexible electrochemical behavior. Supercapacitor's have increased attention due to their exclusive structures such as high capacitance, working efficiency, temperature tolerance, and eco-friendly nature. Additionally, hybrid energy storage systems significantly influence advanced electric vehicles applicable power utilization. A battery management system (BMS) requires a reliable and highly efficient power source from the storage technology for electric vehicles applications. Electrochemical energy storage systems are affected by overcharge/over-discharge, temperature or cell unbalancing. The key factor in a battery management system is cell balancing between cells in a string that prolongs the energy storage device's lifecycle and performance. This paper highlights a comprehensive study and evaluations focusing on different types of batteries, Supercapacitor's, and balancing circuits applicable in BMS on electric vehicles and renewable energy storage systems. This rigorous study presents different electrochemical batteries chemistry, anode, cathodes, electrolyte, charging and discharging lifecycle, advantages, and disadvantages. For the Supercapacitor, different types of electrode materials, electrolyte interface, energy storage function, and available Supercapacitor's capacitance in the market, cell, and module voltage are presented. Also, this study shows the different types of cell balancing circuit's components number, control complicity, voltage and current stress, overall balancing circuit efficiency, power loss, circuit size and cost, advantages and disadvantages. This manuscript highlights all the insights that will lead to choosing the required and appropriate battery, Supercapacitor or blanching circuit for future applications on electric vehicles systems.