Because of the advantages of fast charge and discharge speed,high power density and high energy density,flexible supercapacitors have become an ideal energy supply device for smart wearable devices. Good electrochemical performance and flexibility are considered as the key properties of the device for energy supply,and the electrode material is its core element. There are many methods to prepare the electrode materials,such as deposition method,spinning method,spraying method,coating method,3D printing method,etc. Among them,electrospinning is a simple process,and it’s feasible to control fiber morphology;meanwhile,electrospun nanofibers have a large specific surface area,high porosity and good flexibility,which can be directly used as an ideal electrode material for supercapacitors without binder after carbonization. In this article,we summarize the latest research progress of conventional and new electrospun flexible electrode materials in supercapacitors in recent years,classify the electrode materials,and then compare the preparation methods and post-treatment processes of different kinds of electrode materials. It is concluded that the carbonized electrospun nanofiber membrane as the electrode material has large specific surface area and high carbon content. The optimized pore structure of the material with post-treatment or the metal oxide loaded on the surface of the material can improve its electrochemical performance and realize its use efficiency. The flexibility of electrode materials is not only related to the precursor material, but also greatly affected by the uniformity of nanofiber morphology,pre-oxidation and carbonization temperature,and heating rate,as well as the pore structure formed through post-treatment such as activation. The classification of electrode materials and the introduction of new materials can provide a direction for researchers to develop and use new materials. Besides,the summary of the methods to improve the electrochemical performance of electrode materials and the causes of the flexibility of electrode materials can provide help for researchers to develop new and efficient flexible supercapacitors.