With the continuous development of urbanization and industrialization, the model of "high energy consumption, high pollution, and high waste" has triggered increasing environmental concerns. It is necessary to explore novel green alternatives to eliminate these negative risks. Recently, the strong demand of supercapacitors is sharply increasing due to their excellent energy storage performance, which would be efficient to solve kind of renewable sources depletion problem. Meanwhile, the aquatic environment is seriously threatened by the occurrence of emerging water contaminants. For example, antibiotics in water, even at very low concentrations, can result in a long-term adverse effect on ecological sustainability. As the only phenolic penicillin based on β-lactam ring structure, amoxicillin (AMX) is identified as one of the top ten most frequently consumed drugs used for the treatment of bacterial infections. Referred to the report, an oral intake of 500 mg of AMX results in the excretion of 86%±8% through urine after two hours of consumption. Thus, the widespread application of AMX and their subsequent release in natural water bodies have attracted the attention of the scientific community. Fortunately, biomass-derived porous carbon materials have demonstrated advantages in dealing with these challenges. Over the years, the valorization of waste biomass is attractive in energy storage and environmental restoration. As an abundant, eco-friendly material with high-oxygen content (favorable for improving pseudocapacitance), biomass is a global leading topic in green chemistry, especially as a promising carbon source forthe porous carbons. Owing to the poor performance of pristine porous carbons, engineered porous carbonshave emerged, which are derived from physical, chemical, and biological modifications to improve their surface properties and thus adsorption capacity. The physico-chemical characteristics (e.g. low cost, high surface area and volume, excellent conductivity and physicochemical stability) of porous carbon strongly impact their applications such as energy storage and wastewater treatment. Teawaste biomass is one of such sources that has shown significant prospective forbiochar fabrication. Tea is the most popular and widely consumed beverage that is consumed around the world. China is a leading tea producer and consumer, with anannual tea production of more than 2 million tons. It is quite evident that large amounts of tea waste being generated brings about solid wasteproblems associated with their improper disposal. Tea waste contains a large number of usefulcomponents, including cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin, poly-phenols, proteins, amino acids, vitamins, major elements, andtrace elements, which contribute to its potential as a proper precursor material for the production of activated carbon. Hierarchically porous carbon materials have great potential in both capacitive energy storage and contaminant sorption applications.In this work, the Wuyi rock tea waste (rock tea waste)-derived hierarchically porous carbon (TWBC750) had been prepared via the convenient KOH-activation method at 750 ℃. Their electrochemical performance as a symmetric supercapacitor electrode and the removal of AMX as an adsorbent were systematically studied, respectively. The physio-chemical properties of TWBC750 were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscope (TEM), Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) with pore size distribution, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) techniques. TWBC750 possessed a high degree of graphitization and an abundant porous structure with a pore volume of 0.50 cm3•g-1 and a high specific surface area of 1014.54 m2•g-1. As an electrode, TWBC750 exhibited a maximum specific capacitance of up to 150 F•g-1 at 1 A•g-1 and excellent cycling stability with 94% retention over 10000 cycles at 10 A•g-1. Notably, TWBC750 based on symmetric supercapacitor achieved a maximum energy density of 9.73 Wh•kg-1 at the power density of 700 W•kg-1, with a long-term cycle lifespan (91.75% capacitance retention at 5 A•g-1 after 10000 cycles). The excellent electrochemical performance of the TWBC750 electrode would be mainly attributed to three factors: (1) The large surface area and large pore volume with hierarchical pores were beneficial for rapid ion penetration and transportation, boosting its high capacitance and rate capability. (2) The abundant functional groups provided extra faradaic pseudo capacitance. (3) The hollow-hole structure alleviated the volume expansion of the electrode in the charging and discharging process, and its high graphitization degree increased the conductivity of the material and jointly improved the cyclic stability of the electrode. As adsorbents, the adsorption equilibrium and adsorption kinetics results evidenced the fitted Langmuir and pseudo-second order models.Langmuir isotherm suggested a high adsorption capacity of 129.249 mg•g-1 at 45 ℃. Thermodynamic parameters indicated that the removal of AMX by TWBC750 was a nonspontaneous, entropy-decreasing and endothermic process. Furthermore, TWBC750 was used to remove AMX from wastewaters and the results showed 98.68% and 90.23% removal of AMX at 1.06 and 7.68 mg•L-1, respectively. This work showcased recyclable utilization of tea waste as a cost-effective and efficient porous carbon for energy storage and environmental remediation.