The electric mining trucks are the main transportation equipment for open-pit mines, and undertake the transportation tasks for about 40% of coal mines and 80% of iron oremines in the world. Their transmission system adopts the structure of "diesel power generation-electric wheel drive", which has the disadvantages of large fuel consumption and high carbon emission. Driven by the "carbon peak" and"carbon neutrality" policies proposed by the Chinese government, the research and development of a new generation power transmission system with the features of energy-efficient, low-carbon and independently controllable has become a major demand and key issue in the coal industry. Using mine operation data analysis, literature research, and technical performance comparison, the current research status, characteristics and shortcomings of the existing electric drive system of electric mining trucks are analyzed, and a technical route from energy saving to net-zero emissions is proposed. The results show that the electric mining truck works along with complex multi-source energy generation, storage, conversion, and consumption mechanisms. Meanwhile, there is huge space for energy saving and emission reduction, which mainly involves three aspects, namely electrical energy conversion and high-efficiency utilization, mechanical energy recovery, and diesel combustion for electrical energy generation. Firstly, in the process of electrical energy conversion and high-efficiency utilization, it is believed that the use of vehicle-to-everything(V2X) and bidirectional electric drive technology can realize power and energy optimization management of the electric power transmission system, thus improving operational efficiency and reducing carbon emissions. Secondly, in the process of mechanical energy recovery, according to the conversion laws of multiple energy(including the mechanical energy of the vehicle, the electrochemical energy of the energy storage system, and the thermal energy of the braking resistor) in time and space domains, the application of high specific power a lithium-ion battery technology, as well as lithium-ion battery and supercapacitor hybrid energy storage technology, can achieve the recovery and recyce of braking energy, thereby significantly reducing carbon emissions. Thirdly, in the process of diesel combustion for electrical energy generation, the use of hydrogen fuel cell technology instead of diesel power generation technology, along with the availability of hydrogen energy from coal and renewable energy sources nearby, will create an internal cycle of efficient hydrogen energy use in open-pit mines. The hydrogen fuel cell technology has the advantages of net-zero emission, high mass energy density, and high power generation efficiency, which makes it an ideal solution and long-term technology route to achieve carbon neutrality for electric mining trucks and even for the whole transportation system of open-pit mines.