Bionanocomposites represent an emerging group of nanostructured hybrid materials. Besides the structural and functional properties similar to conventional nanocomposites, the inherent properties, namely, biocompatibility and biodegradability, make these environmentally benign materials highly attractive for both academia and industry. Research on bionanocomposites is an interdisciplinary field that is closely related to packaging and biological systems, such as tissue engineering and drug delivery, and also extended to electronics, sensor, and energy applications, just to name a few. This chapter will give an overview on the research progress of self-assembled bionanocomposites and artificial nanocomposites composed of typical biopolymers and nanoparticles, which exhibit dielectric functions and can have promising potential to be used in biological, electronic, and energy storage applications. 7.1 IntroductionDwindling fossil resources and growing environmental concerns have led to increasing need for sustainable solutions. Overdependence on petroleum resources and environmental impact/carbon footprint can be alleviated by biomaterials development using biological resources or more precisely annually renewable resources. Bionanocomposites are formed by the polymer matrix and reinforcing phase, either of them or both based on renewable resources, and show at least one dimension on the nanometer scale. Bionanocomposites have been the subject of extensive research since the last two decades. These efforts have generated environment-friendly applications for many uses, such as for automotive, packaging, and household products, to name some [1]. Multifunctionality is a trend of development to expand the applications of bionanocomposites.Dielectric bionanocomposites can be utilized for various applications such as conductive elements, heating devices, electromagnetic interference, supercapacitor, shielding and antimicrobial elements, and bio-applications like those of tissue scaffolds for the replacement or restoration of damaged or malfunctioning tissue because a variety of tissue respond to electrical stimulation [2]. On the other hand, an accurate and comprehensive description of structures is of vital importance for the development of high-quality bionanocomposites, which is, however, very difficult because of their nature. Electrical conductivity depends on the micro-and macroscopic states of the composites and gives information on the interaction of individual components inside. Determining the electrical properties of a material is therefore one of the most convenient and sensitive methods for studying the structures of materials [3, 4]. The dielectric properties of bionanocomposites depend on the nature of biopolymer matrix and filler particles, the dimension (mainly include length-to-diameter or aspect ratio) and content of filler particles, and the interfacial characteristics. These issues are taken into consideration in this chapter when reviewing the dielectric performance of bionanocomposites.