Synthesis of nanostructured transition metal sulfides is of particular interest in providing new methods to control their porosity and improve their surface area because those sulfides hold promising applications in high-energy density devices. Significant challenges remain currently to prepare metal sulfides having three-dimensional (3-D) continuous mesoporous structures, known to be critical for increasing their active surface sites and enhancing ion transport. We herein present a facile solid-phase sulfurization method to synthesize 3-D continuous mesoporous CoS2, NiS2, and their binary sulfides in a two-step nanocasting using bicontinuous KIT-6 as hard templates. The solid-phase sulfurization taking place at 400 °C yields mesoporous sulfides with highly crystalline frameworks and a stoichiometric ratio of metal-to-sulfur, 1:2 (mol), within 30 min. Elemental sulfur as an inexpensive sulfur source can be directly used for the solid-phase sulfurization of mesoporous oxides of Co3O4, NiO, and their binary oxides. This facile synthetic method is highly efficient to prepare mesoporous sulfides in the gram-scale production at a very low cost. Mesoporous sulfides are demonstrated to be superior electrode materials for pseudo-supercapacitors, given their high surface area and accessible bicontinuous mesopores, the suitable crystalline sizes, and the enhanced ion transport capability. The use of binary mesoporous sulfides presents interesting synergetic effect where the doping of metal ions can significantly enhance the capacitive performance of single-component sulfides. The binary sulfides of mNi0.32Co0.68S2 show a specific capacitance up to 1698 F g-1 at a current density of 2 A g-1. The supercapacitor device of mNi0.32Co0.68S2 has a high energy density of 37 Wh kg-1 at a power density of 800 W kg-1. We believe that the reported solid-phase synthesis offers a universal method toward the conversion of mesoporous oxides materials into various useful and functional forms for energy conversion and storage applications.