Development of high-performance energy storage devices with exceptional and consistent performance is of immense significance due to ecological concerns to meet the growing demands for high-performance energy conversion and storage. V2O5 materials have attracted particular attention for energy storage owing to their excellent Faradaic performance, several oxidation valences, inexpensive, ease of synthesis, and non-toxic, all of which make them favorable materials for both energy conversion and storage applications. In this investigation, an efforts has been made to synthesize the novel 2D S-doped V2O5 flakes via a facile hydrothermal procedure. The materials developed were utilized in photoelectrochemical (PEC) water oxidation as well as electrochemical energy storage supercapacitors. XRD analysis confirmed that V2O5 crystal structure is orthorhombic, and doping of the sulfur ions into V2O5 lattice, which has considerably narrowed the band gap from 2.17 eV to 2.02 eV. Nyquist plots revealed that the doped electrode showed reduced inner resistance (RS) and charge transmission resistance (RCT) compared to that of naked electrode. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations illustrate that sulfur-ion doping in the two-dimensional V2O5 monolayer remarkably enhances the electrical properties of the materials. Furthermore, the doping of S into the host matrix causes a positive influence on its structure, electrical conductivity and ion diffusion. Doped V2O5 2D flakes exhibited a specific capacitance of 749F/g at 1 A/g with excellent stability after 3000 cycles at 2.5 A/g compared to the undoped sample. Furthermore, 2D S-doped V2O5 flakes showed ∼ 4.7 folds improvement in photocurrent density and reduced charge resistance than the undoped sample, indicating that doped V2O5 has excellent photoelectrochemical (PEC) water oxidation properties. The fabricated 2D nanostructured materials can be the potential materials for constructing inexpensive and high-performance energy conversion (e.g., hydrogen production, green energy generation), and energy storage devices.