Abstract: Nanocellulose products derived from different forms of biomass have significant importance in the modern era. This is due to its extraordinary physical characteristics, wide surface area as well as its biodegradability, which lead to being promising reinforcements as a nanomaterial. The nanomaterials which represent the cellulosic structures comprise nanocellulose reinforcements with biodegradable characteristics and tremendous ability to be used in eco-friendly applications to supplant fossil-based products. Meanwhile, the syntheses approach of such nanoscale structures still possesses challenging tasks at nanoscales. In addition, the virtuous distribution of nanocellulose in the hydrophobic polymer matrix has still difficulties to produce high-performance nanomaterials. Consequently, this study concludes many approaches and techniques to structural alteration of cellulosic materials to improve the distribution of nanocellulose to enhance the characteristics and features of nanocomposites. The macroscale and nanoscale cellulosic structures get popularity because of their high strength, stiffness, biodegradability, renewability, and use in the preparation of nanocomposites. Application of cellulose nanofibres for the production of nanocomposites is a relatively recent research field. Cellulose macro- and nanofibres can be used as insulation nanocomposite materials because of the improved mechanical, thermal, and biodegradation properties of nanocomposites. Cellulose fibres are hydrophilic, so it became important to improve their surface roughness for the production of nanocomposites with improved properties. This article includes the surface modifications of cellulose fibres by different methods as well as production processes, properties, and various applications of nanocellulose and cellulosic nanocomposites. A high thermal conductivity of cellulosic nanocomposite material for electronic devices can be obtained by combining cellulose nanofibrils (CNF) as the framework material with carbon nanotubes, graphene, and inorganic nitrides. Additionally, the research developments in this field with prospective applications of CNF-based materials for supercapacitors, lithium-ion batteries, and solar cells are emphasized. Moreover, the emerging challenges of different cellulosic nanofibrils-based energy storage devices have been discussed in this review paper. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]