Batteries and supercapacitors that possess the mechanical properties of structural composites are desirable for electric vehicles and aerospace applications, as energy may be stored within structural panels to realize significant mass and volume savings. However, current electrode materials suffer from poor mechanical performance, as described by a low multifunctional efficiency parameter (<1). This parameter is a single metric that combines mechanical and electrochemical performance, whereby a higher value represents improved multifunctionality. Here, the interplay between chemistry and mechanics is harnessed to design reduced graphene oxide (rGO) structural supercapacitor electrodes via hydrogen bonding and chelation inspired by nacre. Dopamine functionalization, divalent ions, and aramid nanofibers create rGO composite electrodes with high multifunctional efficiency values of 5–13.6. Non-covalent interactions lead to increases in Young's modulus and ultimate tensile strength of 220% and 255%, respectively, as compared with pure rGO. This work highlights the importance of chemical interactions for realizing multifunctional structural electrodes. Advanced energy-storage technologies have emerged to accommodate the increasing demands for aerospace and ground transportation. However, mass and volume are critical to these applications, and reduction in either of these aspects may lead to enhanced efficiency or mobility. Structural batteries and supercapacitors offer a solution, as they combine energy-storage capabilities with the mechanical properties of structural composites. However, current electrodes for batteries and supercapacitors suffer from poor mechanical performance, precluding their use as structural components. In this work, we demonstrate that nature-inspired, nacre-like structures and nature-inspired chemistries lead to large improvements in the mechanical performance of graphene-based electrodes while maintaining good energy-storage performance. This approach leads to a new family of structural electrodes, potentially leading to lighter and safer electric vehicles and aircraft. Traditional battery and supercapacitor electrodes suffer from poor mechanical properties. Here, we harnessed non-covalent interactions between reduced graphene oxide (rGO) and branched aramid nanofibers to design strong supercapacitor electrodes. Dopamine functionalization and Ca2+ ion addition led to tremendous improvements in mechanical performance while maintaining good energy-storage performance. The highest reported multifunctional efficiency parameter was realized for rGO-based electrodes. This work paves the way for highly multifunctional structural electrodes.