Possibilities of electrochemical energy conversion using carbon nanotubes and related materials in various systems, such as lithium batteries, supercapacitors, hydrogen storage, are considered. It is shown that for these applications the electrochemical properties of multiwalled (MWNTs) and single walled (SWNTs) nanotubes are essentially dominated by their mesoporous character. During lithium insertion into nanotubular materials a high irreversible capacity Cirr (from 460 to 1080 mAh/g) has been observed after the first cycle with a tendency to further decomposition of electrolyte with cycling. Penetration of solvated lithium ions in the accessible mesopores is at the origin of this phenomenon; an almost linear dependence has been found between the mesopore volume and Cirr. Reversible capacity for lithium insertion Crev ranged between 220 and 780 mAh/g; however, a great divergence (hysteresis) between insertion and extraction characteristics was observed independently on the kind of nanotubes and oxygen content. Amount of lithium stored by electrostatic attraction is negligible in comparison to real redox reactions which for thermodynamic reasons present linear variation of potential, especially during deinsertion (pseudocapacitive effects). During positive polarization, i.e., removal of lithium, resistivity of the electrode also gradually increases. Due to the open network of mesopores formed by the nanotubes entanglement, and consequently an easily accessible electrode-electrolyte interface, nanotubular materials are quite adapted for supercapacitor electrodes in various electrolytic solutions. High values of capacitance (80 F/g) have been obtained in 6 M KOH for materials with a surface area of only ca. 430 m2/g. Capacitance values have been enhanced either by additional oxygenated functionalisation of nanotubes (130 F/g) or by conducting polypyrrole (PPy) electrodeposition where the maximum values reached 170 F/g. The next domain of energy storage in the carbon nanostructures is the accumulation of hydrogen by the electrochemical decomposition of aqueous alkaline medium on a negatively polarized carbon electrode in ambient conditions. For SWNTs only moderate values (below 0.5 wt.% of H2) have been found, while for activated carbons with highly developed surface area of 1500 m2/g, the amount of reversibly sorbed hydrogen was ca. 2 wt.%, noticeably larger than under dihydrogen pressure (only 0.4 wt.% for the same material at 70 bar and 273 K). The enhancement observed for the activated carbon is interpreted by the formation of nascent hydrogen during water reduction which penetrates easily in the available carbon nanopores. The values obtained by this method are comparable to those of metallic alloys, such as LaNi5 for example. © 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.