In the era of miniaturization, low-cost, high mechanical stability and lightweight are the pre-requisites for the commercialization of smart-wearable supercapacitors (SCs). For this purpose, light-weight, binder-free, sustainable cellulose based thin-films with conductive polymers such as polypyrrole (PPy) have attained considerable attention. However, the delamination of the conductive materials in sandwich-type structures of SCs, particularly during the cyclic bending process at high current densities, is a great challenge for wearable SCs. To circumvent the problem of delamination of conductive materials, multi-layer forming concept that consists of three sequential steps (forming, pressing and drying) in papermaking technology has inspired us to prepare mechanically ultra-stable paper electrodes towards for wearable SCs. For this reason, we firstly adopted the multi-layer concept to design all-in-one paper flexible SCs by integrating PPy-modified cellulose fibers as electrodes, and un-modified cellulose paper as a separator. More importantly, a cocklebur like structure of PPy-modified cellulose fiber has been attained by the virtue of the strong inter-molecular hydrogen bonding between free hydroxyl groups on the surface cellulose fibers and PPy, resulting in increased PPy loading, and thus enhancing the electrochemical properties of the all-in-one paper supercapacitor. Furthermore, these hydroxyl groups facilitate the inter-layer bonding of the paper structure in the subsequent pressing and drying processes, favoring the integration of the electrodes and separator. Benefiting from the multi-layer forming concept and suitable morphology of PPy- modified cellulose, we have prepared an ultra-thin (150 μm) all-in-one paper SC with high areal specific capacitance (up to 562 mF cm−2), high energy density (up to 3.1 mWh cm−3) and high-power density (up to 414.9 mW cm−3). Moreover, the all-in-one paper SC shows excellent flexibility, with negligible specific capacitance loss by bending at 0° to 180° angles after repeating 1000 times. The proposed concept and supercapacitor fabrication process is scalable and can be readily implemented in a modern paper industry.