Diatomite has gradually become one of the hotspots in the interdisciplinary research by virtue of its natural three⁃dimensional mesoporous and bionic structure, low synthesis cost and other advantages. However, the main component of diatomite is amorphous SiO2, whose high resistivity greatly limits its application in electronic devices. Through the modifying process, diatomite can be converted into diatom⁃based silicon with high conductivity while maintaining the original structure, thereby promoting its application in electronic devices. The magnesiothermic reduction has attracted wide attention because of its simple operation, low cost and pollution⁃free. In order to promote the yield and performance of silicon and reduce the generation of intermediate products such as Mg2SiO4 and Mg2Si, researchers have experimented on the reaction temperature, the reaction time, the mixing mode of the silicon source and the magnesium source, the molar ratio of the raw materials, the moderator, the variety of raw materials, etc. Finally, the optimal range of parameters such as reaction temperature and reaction time are determined, which promotes the efficient large⁃scale preparation of diatom⁃based silicon. Diatom⁃based silicon prepared by magnesiothermic reduction has been greatly developed and applied for electronic devices such as lithium batteries, supercapacitors and solar cells due to its excellent structural stability,large specific surface area, natural microporosity and so on. Moreover, it can be used as the negative electrode of lithium⁃ion batteries, effectively solving the problem of volume expansion during charging and discharging. The preparation of diatom⁃based silicon is simpler, compared with other nanostructures, and it has higher capacity and cycle stability after further loading electrochemically active materials. Besides, the high porosity of diatom⁃based silicon facilitates the adsorption and deposition of electrochemically active materials, giving it significant advantages in the application of supercapacitors and solar cells; in addition, it has unique application of biomedicine because of excellent biocompatibility and luminescence properties. This paper summarizes the development and improvement of the magnesiothermic thermal reduction of diatomite, and the research status of the application of diatom⁃based silicon in various electronic devices (lithium ion batteries, supercapacitors, solar cells, biosensors, etc.). Finally, the development trend of the preparation of porous silicon from diatomite by magnesium thermal reduction is prospected.