International Energy Agency reported the net-zero carbon target by 2050 in its recent annual report. The global energy landscape is expected to anticipate an energy transition with an increase in renewable energy share from 12% to 35% for electricity sector by 2050. Most of the countries in the world had pledged to be become net-zero or carbon neutral countries by 2050. Solar photovoltaic (PV) and wind energy will contribute 50% of energy mix in this context. Solar PV and wind energy are intermittent resources that highly depending on the weather and climate conditions. The intermittency issues caused mismatch between electricity generation and demand profiles. This will greatly affect the requirement of meeting the daily load profile, satisfying the peak demand and resulting in generation of surplus, and so on. Energy storages play a vital role in this scenario by allowing this excess energy to be stored and used to meet the demand during low energy production. Previous literature evaluated the feasibility of utilizing battery energy storage in large-scale solar PV plant in Malaysia using load following dispatch strategy, which can be further enhanced by utilizing a hybrid energy storage system. This study aims to develop an optimized hybrid energy storage system utilizing battery and supercapacitors to complement a large-scale solar PV system. This study also evaluates two dispatch strategies that are load following and cycle charging for three different power system configurations. Subsequently, a market leading battery is modelled with parameters such as nominal voltage, capacity, round-trip efficiency, minimum and maximum state of charge, and maximum and minimum charge and discharge current in four different scenarios utilizing two dispatch strategies. These studies are conducted using power system and energy storage modelling tools with localized energy data for the Malaysia context. The proposed hybrid energy storage system demonstrates an improvement of about 30% in annual throughput under the load following dispatch strategy. The hybrid power system also increases the renewable energy fraction by 5% in the system. This study creates an optimized framework in the development of energy storage for grid integration that permits high level of solar PV penetration in the transmission and distribution network.