With the rapid development of economy and technology, huge energy consumption has brought potential pressure to the world. Efficient conversion and storage of energy is the key problem urgent to be solved. Novel energy conversion and storage devices, therefore, attract a lot of attention. The polymer electrolytes based on polymers as the matrix material exhibit high strength and flexibility, making secondary batteries and supercapacitors have great potential application in the field of flexible wearable devices. Polyurethane is composed of a two-phase structure of incompatible soft segment-hard segment. The soft segment is in a rubbery state, which endows the material with good flexibility, while the hard segment formed by polar groups in a glass state can act as the physical cross-linking point. The polyurethane with excellent molecular designability exhibits a wide range of properties from rigid plastic to elastic rubber, so that it can be regarded as one of the important matrix materials of polymer electrolytes. Polyurethane can enhance the comprehensive performance of polymer electrolyte by means of molecular design, plasticizing modification and composite modification. The molecular structure design and modification methods of polyurethane are emerging and gradually deepening, which improves the comprehensive properties of polyurethane-based polymer electrolytes. Therefore, the polyurethane has been widely investigated in flexible energy storage devices such as lithium-ion batteries and solid-state supercapacitors. In this paper, the research progress of polyurethane-based polymer electrolytes applied in electrochemical devices is reviewed and classified according to the composition structures of polyurethane-based electrolytes. Polyether-type polyurethane electrolytes, polycarbonate-type polyurethane electrolytes, copolymerizing modified (polysiloxane modified and acrylate modified) polyurethane-based polymer electrolytes and composite modified polyurethane-based polymer electrolytes are introduced emphatically. Meanwhile, the development trend of polyurethane-based polymer electrolyte in the field of electrochemical energy storages is prospected.