Supercapacitors, which are also called electrochemical capacitors or ultracapacitors, store energy by using either electrostatic adsorption and desorption (electrochemical double-layer capacitor, EDLC) or fast and reversible redox reactions with the electrolyte (pseudocapacitors). We first described a graphene and single-walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT) composite film for supercapacitors. The specific capacitance of single electrode of 290.6 F/g and 201 F/g has been obtained in aqueous and organic electrolytes, respectively. The SWCNTs acted as a conductive additive, spacer, and binder in the graphene/CNT supercapacitors. Graphene is explored as a platform for energy storage device by decorating graphene with flower-like MnO2 nanostructures by using electrodeposition method. The specific capacitance after the MnO2 deposition is 328 F/g at the charging current of 1 mA. Graphene and single-walled carbon nanotube (CNT) composites are also explored further as electrodes for supercapacitors by coating polyaniline (PANI) nanocones. Electro-etched carbon fiber cloth is explored as an electrode for supercapacitors by coating polyaniline nanowires. The polyaniline nanowires can reach a mass-normalized specific capacitance of 673 F/g and an area-normalized specific capacitance of 3.5 F/cm2. Nanostructured Co(OH)2 flakes are produced by electrodeposition, and they are coated onto electro-etched carbon fiber cloth and graphene/CNTs composite materials to use as the electrode materials for supercapacitor. An ultrahigh specific capacitance of 3404.8 F/g and an area-normalized specific capacitance of 3.3 F/cm2 have been obtained from carbon fiber cloth and Co(OH)2 electrodes. We also reported a porous graphene sponge additive for both anode and cathode materials for better rate performance. The charge capacity retention improved from 56% to 77% at 6C and from 7% to 45% at 10C with 0.5 wt% added to the anode, while the discharge capacity retention at the 6C rate improved from 43% to 76% and the 10C rate discharge improved from 16% to 40% with the same amount of MG added to the cathode. These results demonstrate the suitability of MG for use with LiB additives to ensure better rate capability and high rate cyclability.