The emergence of portable and wearable electronic products is now spurring the demands for flexible energy storage devices. The prevailing energy storage devices are Li-ion batteries and supercapacitors, in which the latter have the advantages of faster charging/discharging, higher cycle stability and larger specific capacitance. However, traditional supercapacitors will suffer a storage capacity fall if they are subjected to external forces such as stretching and compressing. Thus stretchable supercapacitors have already aroused great concern. Electrode is a critical part of stretchable supercapacitors. The electrochemical and mechanical properties of electrodes can be improved by preparing electrode materials with excellent properties or designing electrode structures adapted or resistant to severe mechanical forces, e.g. compression, tension and torsion. Carbon materials such as carbon nanotubes, graphene, carbon fibers and carbon aerogels belong to electric double-layer electrode materials. Although these materials have high cyclic stability and large surface area, they still have disadvantages such as low specific capacitance and low energy density. Moreover, graphene faces the problem of deficient energy storage performance induced by stacking and agglomeration. The fabrication of carbon-based composite electrode materials, by combining carbon materials with other types of electrode materials, thereby has become a hot topic recently. Pseudocapacitor electrode materials with high specific capacitance, transition metal sulphides with high specific surface area, and metal nanowires with high electrical conductivity, all of them have been found to have collaborative & complementary effects with some of the carbon materials. And the resultant stretchable composite electrodes, compared with electrodes made of only carbon materials, seem to have obvious improvements in specific capacitance, cyclic stability and mechanical properties. This paper gives a comparative presentation of the advantages and disadvantages of various carbon materials in use of stretchable supercapacitors. Then, the advances in carbon-based composite electrode materials that have acquired intensive research interest in recent years are reviewed.