As a new two-dimensional carbon material, grapheyne has p conjugated units, SP2 and SP hybrid carbon atoms and adjustable pore structure. It has stable structure, good conductivity and strong plasticity. Its structure can be adjusted by hybridization or modification. It has a good application prospect in the field of electrochemistry. This paper briefly introduced different types of graphyne and their structures, such as a-graphyne, ß-graphyne, ?-graphyne and 6, 6, 1 2-graphyne, as well as graphdiyne. The synthesis strategies of graphyne and its derivatives are described, including wet and dry methods. There are in-situ synthesis methods of different types of graphyne and graphdiyne, and different structures are obtained through different synthesis or growth methods, such as nano films, nano sheets and nano chains. It also includes the preparation strategy of graphyne derivatives, which adjusts the structure by heteroatom doping or metal atom modification, such as nitrogen atom doping, platinum atom modification and so on. The advanced research results of graphyne and its derivatives in the field of energy are reviewed, including the research results of graphyne and its derivatives in lithium-ion batteries, hydrogen oxygen fuel cells, sodium ion batteries, supercapacitor and other electrochemical energy storage devices and materials. As the anode of lithium-ion battery, the coulomb efficiency and cycle performance of the battery are improved, and the stability of the battery is enhanced. It has good catalytic performance for oxygen reduction reaction and has the prospect of being used as a catalyst for hydrogen oxygen fuel cell. It also has good storage performance for sodium, calcium and magnesium, and has good potential in application with sodium ion batteries and multivalent ion batteries. It shows good cycle performance and specific capacity in supercapacitor. In addition, it also has good theoretical capacity in hydrogen storage. It has a good application prospect in a variety of electrochemical energy storage devices. Comprehensive analysis shows that graphyne, as a new allotrope of carbon, has good performance and optimization potential in structure and electrochemical properties. It has a good development prospect in electrochemical energy storage devices in the future.