The widespread use of renewable energies as primary energy sources or the success of electric transport are goals which greatly depend on the development of suitable energy storage devices. In this regard, electrochemical technologies would fit very well the needs required for these applications if competitive devices with higher energy density and power density could be developed. In particular, supercapacitors have high power densities and long cycle life but suffer from low energy densities. Since carbons are the materials of choice for supercapacitor electrodes due to their properties, such as high surface area, good electrical conductivity, and low cost [1], many research efforts are focused on the improvement of the energy densities which carbon materials can store, and one of the main research avenues in this field is the optimization of pseudocapacitive reactions at carbon surface [2]. Quinone surface functionalities, naturally present on the surface of some kinds of carbon, are one especially interesting source of pseudocapacitance due to their multielectronic redox reactions. Thus, their optimization on carbon surfaces is a focus of interest, either by purposely oxidizing carbons using different methodologies [3] or by covalently adding quinones on carbon surfaces using diazonium chemistry [4]. Nevertheless, after many years of research, all these methodologies have not yet provided competitive performances. With the abovementioned goal in mind, we have recently started the exploration of alternative strategies for the addition of quinones on carbon surfaces. These strategies include non-convalent attachment using impregnation [5] and covalent attachment using Friedel-Crafts chemistry [6]. Our results show that using these novel strategies there is room for improvement in the attainable energy densities of carbon electrodes, while also show differences depending on the addition strategy and the particular carbon and quinone used which will be discussed in detail in this contribution.