With the continuous growth of global energy demand, efficient energy storage has become particularly critical. Electrochemical energy storage devices (such as supercapacitors, lithium-ion batteries, etc.) are typical energy storage systems with high energy density, no memory effect and low self-discharge rate. Supercapacitors have the advantages of high power density and long cycle life. However, the existing electrochemical energy storage devices can not be biodegraded, which has a certain harm to the environment. As a product of photosynthesis, biomass, such as wood, has the advantages of low cost, renewable, green and environmental protection. The preparation of electrochemical energy storage devices derived from biomass has attracted increasing attention. The electrochemical energy storage device is mainly composed of electrodes, electrolytes and fluid collectors. The design, assembly and structure of the device are the key factors affecting its electrochemical properties. At present, the preparation of electrochemical energy storage devices, such as supercapacitors, is to grind carbon materials into powder and add adhesives to make slices. The addition of adhesives can easily block the pore of activated carbon and reduce its electrochemical performance. Activated carbon can only be used as porous energy storage material, and it can't be used free-standing supercapacitor electrode. Conventional lithium batteries are prepared by dissolving active electrode mate-rials with conductive additives and binders in organic solvents to form slurry coated on collectors to form electrodes. However, during the preparation process, the electrodes will be broken and the electrochemical active materials will be separated from collectors. Wood is a natural renewable biomass resource with the advantages of sustainable utilization and abundant resources. Besides, wood has layered porous structure, excellent mechanical flexibility and integrity. Carbonizing wood at high temperature or loading conductive material is an ideal three-dimensional conductive substrate with unique straightness. Channels facilitate ion transport and provide large specific surfaces for high loading of active materials. Wood carbonization was prepared by hydrothermal or electrochemical deposition of metal oxide/hydroxide loaded conductive polymer with high theoretical capacitance and used as self-supporting electrode of supercapacitor. It has excellent electrochemical properties. In addition, wood was used as substrate and loaded with active electrode materials such as lithium iron phosphate. The preparation of battery-grade electrode material effectively solves the problem of cracking and separation between the traditional electrode active material and the substrate. In this article, we present the research progress of wood-based energy storage devices, discuss the specific application of wood in supercapacitors, lithium-ion batteries, lithium-air batteries and lithium-sulfur batteries, emphatically introduce the influence of wood micro-structure on electrochemical energy storage equipment, and analyses the problems faced by wood-based electrochemical energy storage equipment and its future development. In order to provide reference for the preparation of wood-based electrochemical energy storage equipment with higher performance and environmental friendliness.