To address the present situation pertaining to the energy crisis spreading across the world and an increasing level of environmental pollution, time has come to focus more on renewable energy sources like solar, wind, tidal, etc. Clean energy generated from these sources has the potential to mitigate the crisis. However, the intermittent nature of these sources makes them unsuitable for day-to-day applications. To overcome the issue, an efficient energy storage device has to be developed which can store and supply energy generated from these sources as and when required mode. Presently, many such devices, for example, capacitor, battery, fuel cell, etc., are used as energy storage devices. Additionally, a new technology, i.e., supercapacitor, has immerged as one of the promising energy storage devices. Supercapacitor possesses a relatively higher energy density compared to the conventional capacitors and higher power density than the batteries, or fuel cells. Commercial supercapacitor utilizes activated carbon as an electrode. Unfortunately, owing to the physical storage mechanism, these carbon-based devices do not demonstrate high energy density. On the contrary, different transition metal oxides and few conducting polymer-based electrodes store charges faradically and thus demonstrate very high energy density. However, because of the repeated oxidation and reduction cycles, these electrodes degrade over time. Thus, constant research is going on to improve the stability of such devices. To increase the specific capacitance, i.e., the capacitance per unit mass of the active material, it is always useful to fabricate the electrode in thin-film form. In this method, the material utilization of the active material also decreases, which is beneficial for commercial applications. In this chapter, different classes of supercapacitors, their storage mechanisms, and techniques to characterize electrode materials are discussed. In addition, different thin-film deposition techniques for the fabrication of supercapacitor electrodes are also discussed.