Layered double hydroxide(LDH)is a two-dimensional layered nanomaterial widely used in catalysis, separation, biology, and electrochemistry owing to its functionalization. In this study, nickel-cobalt LDH(NiCo-LDH)intercalated with glucose(G)and sodium dodecyl sulfate(SDS)was synthesized in situ through the hydrothermal method to investigate the effects of G and SDS on the LDH structure and properties. Scanning electron microscopy was conducted to compare the morphologies of different intercalated LDHs. X-ray diffraction, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller, and other characterization methods were used to investigate the microstructure and the molecular interactions of G- and SDS-intercalated NiCo-LDH. The results show that G and SDS can be successfully inserted into the NiCo-LDH layer. Compared with that of the unintercalated NiCo-LDH, the sizes of the intercalated NiCo-LDH nanosheets were smaller. The interlayer spacing of SDS intercalated NiCo-LDH layer was 1.17 nm, which was 1.46 times of that of unintercalated NiCo-LDH layer. In addition, the mesoporous specific surface area of the SDS-intercalated NiCo-LDH was much higher than that of the G-intercalated and unintercalated NiCo-LDHs. The differences in the electrochemical properties were further explored by cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge-discharge methods. The results show that the SDS-intercalated NiCo-LDH had a specific capacitance of 1911.6F/g, which was 24.2% higher than that of the unintercalated NiCo-LDH, mainly because of the structural characteristics, such as small nanometer size, high layer spacing, and high specific surface area. The specific capacitance of the G-intercalated NiCo-LDH was 806.1F/g owing to the poor secondary growth. Meanwhile, the intercalated NiCo-LDH showed relatively poor cycle stability owing to the structural heterogeneity. The intercalation effects of different molecules or ions can provide a new path for LDH application in supercapacitors.