The appropriate measurement of solar power output plays a critical role in the performance analysis of any solar power plant or a photovoltaic array.The performance under standard test conditions (STC), as mentioned by the manufacturers, is seldom attained as measurements of a PV module/array are done in outdoor terms. To evaluate the efficiency of performance, a photovoltaic module/array accurately, an on-line characterization of such photovoltaic (PV) set-ups at non-standard test conditions (NSTC) is always necessary. In the backdrop of the absence of reliable and competitively priced PV module characterization systems, a smart, digital and portable test set-up seem to be highly significant, and such a model has been developed and analyzed in this work. This system uses supercapacitors as the load to the PV module under test. At present, such characterizations are carried out using imported devices, which cost around INR 200-300 thousand. The system so developed will cost around INR 30 thousand and is aimed at import substitutions of such measurement devices. This is very important with regard to field installations testing and will also be of extreme help to researchers in the laboratories, who require all cannot use extensive testing and costly imported instruments. Proper attention has been paid in this work to determine the suitability of the method concerning I-V plotting time and accuracy. Thus it becomes imperative that the quality of the new PV metrology be verified experimentally and duly validated to instill confidence among the users. A detailed investigation regarding the quality of measurements has been carried out, taking into consideration the effect of a wide range of climatic variations. It has been found that these values are consistently in good agreement with the results obtained at the standard Electronics Regional Test Laboratory (ERTL Govt. Of India) test set-up. Statistical analysis of the PV measurements is ensured by regression analysis (RA) of the respective electrical parameters and the standard deviation (SD) of fill factor (FF) values. Experimental evaluation of quality parameters like Fill-Factor (FF) has yielded satisfactory ranges of 70% to 79% for FF. Elaborate regression analysis (RA) of principal PV parameters has yielded consistently high values exceeding 99%. At this time, when India is planning to install large-scale PV plants, there is a significant need to measure the electrical parameters of PV modules of different technologies and, after that, choose the appropriate one for optimum performance in a specific region.