The challenge by providing adequate power supplies to the human race on an indefinite basis without causing long-term demage to the environment requires versatile means of energy conversion and storage. Electrical energy storage thus becomes vital today than at any time in human history. Electrochemical systems, including batteries, supercapacitors, fuel cells and photoelectrochemical cells, help meet this objective. For instance, future generations of rechargeable lithium batteries are required to power portable electronic devices (cell phones, laptop computers, etc.), store electricity from renewable sources and serve as a vital component in new hybrid electric vehicles. In some niche applications, pulse power is needed to achieve enhanced energy efficiency in ion storage batteries. Supercapacitors or electrochemical capacitors can supply bursts of power when required. The engineering of new materials, and especially in its nanoscale, has become imperative to achieve enhanced energy and power density to meet the future challenges of energy storage. The book incorporates state-of-the-art understanding pertaining to nanoscale aspects of advanced energy storage devices such as lithium-ion batteries (including microbatteries) and electrochemical supercapacitors. It focuses on various fundamental issues relating to the device performance of various positive and negative electrode materials, with special reference to their nanoscale advantages. It also includes fundamentals and processing techniques with regard to synthesis, characterization, physical and electrochemical properties and applications of nanoscale materials pertaining to advanced electrochemical power sources. The book provides a comprehensive coverage of various nanostructured materials, whose synthesis, structure and properties are at its prime focus for power source applications. A variety of advanced nanomaterials, such as transition metal oxides, phosphates, silicates and conversion electrodes, together with some special nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes, nanorods and mesoporous carbons, are covered by many notable authorities in the field. The book comprises balanced theoretical and experimental approaches adopted in this exhilarating field over the years.