Purpose: Non-linear power–voltage characteristics of solar cell and frequently changing output due to variation in solar irradiance caused by movement of clouds are the major issues need to be considered in photovoltaic (PV) penetration to maintain the power quality of the grid. It is important for a PV module to always function at its maximum available power point to increase the efficiency and to maintain the grid stability. A possible solution to mitigate these generation fluctuations is the use of an electric double-layer capacitor or supercapacitor energy storage device, which is an efficient storage device for power smoothing applications. This study aims to propose a power smoothing control approach to smoothen out the output power variations of a solar PV system using a supercapacitor energy storage device. Design/methodology/approach: To extract the maximum possible power from a PV panel, there are several maximum power points tracking (MPPT) algorithms developed in literature. Fuzzy logic controller-MPPT method is used in this work as it is a very efficient and popular technique which responds quickly under varying ecological conditions, reduced computational complexity and does not depend on any system constraints. Fuzzy logic-based MPPT controller by Boost DC–DC converter is developed for operating the PV panels at available maximum power point. Fuzzy logic-proportional integral (PI) charge controller is implemented by Buck–Boost converter to provide the constant current and suitable voltage for supercapacitor and to achieve better power smoothing. PI charge controller is preferred in this work as it offers better outcomes and is very easy to implement. Findings: Simulation results conclude that the proposed power smoothing control approach can efficiently smooth out the power variations under variable irradiance and temperature situations. To confirm the accurateness of the proposed system, it is validated for poly-crystalline PV module and comparison of results is done by using different case study with and without the use of an energy storage system under change in irradiance condition. The proposed system is developed and examined on MATLAB/Simulink environment. Originality/value: The performance comparison between PV power output with and without the use of a supercapacitor energy storage device under different Case Studies shows that the improved performance in smoothing of power output was achieved with the use of a supercapacitor energy storage device.