Retaining sound electrochemical performance of electrodes at high mass loading holds significant importance to energy storage. Pseudocapacitive materials such as manganese oxide (MnO 2 ) deposited on current collectors have achieved outstanding gravimetric capacitances, sometimes even close to their theoretical values. Yet, this is only achievable with very small mass loading of active material typically less than 1 mg cm −2 . Increasing mass loading often leads to drastic decay of capacitive performance due to sluggish ion diffusion in bulk material. Here, we demonstrate a 3D printed graphene aerogel electrode with MnO 2 loading of 182.2 mg cm −2 , which achieves a record-high areal capacitance of 44.13 F cm −2 . Most importantly, this 3D printed graphene aerogel/MnO 2 electrode can simultaneously achieve excellent capacitance normalized to area, gravimetry, and volume, which is the trade-off for most electrodes. This work successfully validates the feasibility of printing practical pseudocapacitive electrodes, which might revolutionize pseudocapacitor fabrication. Supercapacitors should have a good loading of active materials, typically higher than 10 mg cm −2 , to be practically feasible. However, most capacitive materials, especially pseudocapacitive materials, suffer from drastic capacitance loss with the increase of mass loading and/or electrode thickness due to the sluggish ion diffusion. Therefore, to retain a good capacitive performance at high loading of active material has been an outstanding challenge for supercapacitors. In this work, we demonstrate a major breakthrough in increasing the mass loading of MnO 2 , a commonly used pseudocapacitive material, to a record high level by using a 3D printed porous carbon aerogel scaffold. Significantly, the capacitive performance of the 3D electrode is not limited by ion diffusion even at extremely high mass loadings which is impossible for conventional bulk electrodes. Most importantly, these findings validate the new concept of “printing” practically feasible pseudocapacitor electrodes and devices. Capacitance loss with the increase of mass loading represents an outstanding challenge for supercapacitors. Here we demonstrate for the first time a mm-thick, 3D printed graphene aerogel structure that can support pseudocapacitive MnO 2 to hundreds of mg/cm 2 without sacrificing its gravimetric and volumetric performance. The electrode simultaneously achieves high gravimetric, areal, and volumetric capacitances, which is impossible for conventional bulk electrodes. Most importantly, these findings validate the new concept of “printing” practically feasible pseudocapacitor electrodes and devices.