A photovoltaic solar cell (PVSC) is a type of power system that uses photovoltaic technology to convert the energy of solar light directly into electricity and is therefore capable of operating only when illuminated. Because the sun does not shine at all hours of the day in a given location, solar power is intermittent. Due to this intermittency, PVSCs are unable to provide electricity during the evening and night. For this reason, it is essential to hybridize the PVSCs with electrical energy storage (EES) devices such as capacitors, Li-ion batteries, and supercapacitors (SC) in one single power unit. One of the most promising support systems for meeting the enormous and diverse power demand in contemporary civilization is sunlight-powered energy conversion, which simultaneously achieves power conversion and energy storage. SCs can store huge amounts of energy and have a long service life. They also have a fast charge-discharge time, excellent cyclic stability, and outstanding low-temperature performance. They are one of the alternatives to traditional batteries for replacing them because of their qualities. Growing demand for green energy, miniaturization, and wearable mini-electronic devices will result from the combination of PVSCs and SCs into a single hybrid device. This paper describes an integrated system with a NiO2 nanotubular supercapacitor serving as an energy storage device and a nanostructured PVSC operating as an energy conversion device based on CdTe/CdS heterojunctions. Here, a PVSC is disposed of on the light-receiving front side of a single glass slide, both of which are covered with conductive indium-tin-oxide (ITO) thin film and an AAO template with pores filled with a photosensitive (CdS/CdTe) material. The SC part of the device is located on its rear side. The main operations for the fabrication of the proposed device are listed. It was shown that the design features of the device allow combining and simultaneous execution of some similar fabrication operations, which would have to be carried out in the case of separate manufacture of the constituent elements of the device. To date, experimental studies on the practical implementation of the PV part of the device have been carried out. The preparation technique and structural, optical, and morphological properties of glass/ITO/AAO/CdS structures were investigated through XRD, scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, Raman, and UV-Visible spectroscopy. The materials were demonstrated to be quite suitable as raw materials for the production of solar cells.