Supercapacitors, one of the important means of solving energy shortages and environmental pollution problems, have the characteristics of high power density, long cycle life, fast charging and discharging, and environmental friendliness. Owing to many factors, the electrode material is the key to determining the performance of supercapacitors. Silicates are excellent candidate electrode materials for developing low⁃cost supercapacitors because of their abundant sources, high theoretical specific capacity, adjustable structure, and stable properties. However, their low inherent conductivity, easy agglomeration, and insufficient cycle stability are still disadvantages as supercapacitor materials. Hence, in this work, the construction of diatomite⁃based silicate composite materials is proposed to reduce the production cost of electrode materials and improve the defects of traditional composite methods. Diatomite, which has a porous structure, was chosen to improve the agglomeration of nanomaterials and further improve the electrochemical performance of silicate electrode materials. In addition, after the MnSiO3 @ diatomite composite is coated with Co3 O4 , the core⁃shell structure is successfully synthesized to improve electrochemical performance by improving the electrode material’ s interfacial activity, increasing the number of its ion diffusion channels, and controlling volume expansion during the electrochemical process. Results show that Co3 O4 @ MnSiO3 @ diatomite composite is a new, environmentally friendly electrode material with excellent morphology and structure, outstanding cycling stability, good electrochemical performance, long service life, and low cost. The defects of low conductivity and low cycle stability of silicate electrode materials are improved, and the tendency toward high⁃performance, low⁃cost, green, and pollution⁃free development for electrode materials is promoted. Compared with several previous studies on diatomite⁃based materials, the present work promotes the development and utilization of diatomite and increases its functional application, which provides a new path for high⁃value utilization of diatomite in various fields.