This study proposes an approach for improving catalysis of oxidative desulfurization (ODS) of diesel fuel under mild reaction conditions and enhancing supercapacitor (SC) properties for storage of a high amount of charge. Our approach takes advantage of a novel dual-purpose cobalt(II)-based metal-organic framework (MOF), [Co(2-ATA) 2 (4-bpdb) 4 ] n (2-ATA: 2-aminoterephthalic acid and 4-bpdb: N,N-bis-pyridin-4-ylmethylene-hydrazine as the pillar spacer), which is called NH 2 -TMU-53. Due to the stability of the used compound, we decided to evaluate the capability of this compound as a novel electrode material for storing energy in supercapacitors, and also to investigate its catalytic capabilities. It is demonstrated that the addition of H 2 O 2 as an oxidant enhances the efficiency of sulfur removal, which indicates that NH 2 -TMU-53 can efficiently catalyze the ODS reaction. According to the kinetics results, the catalyzed process follows pseudo-first-order kinetics and exhibits 15.57 kJ mol -1 activation energy. Moreover, with respect to the radical scavenging evaluations, the process is governed by direct catalytic oxidation rather than indirect oxidative attack of radicals. Furthermore, NH 2 -TMU-53 was applied as an electrode material for energy storage in SCs. This material is used in the three-electrode system and shows a specific capacitance of 325 F g -1 at 5 A g -1 current density. The asymmetric supercapacitor of NH 2 -TMU-53//activated carbon evaluates the further electrochemical activity in real applications, delivers the high power density (2.31 kW kg -1 ), high energy density (50.30 Wh kg -1 ), and long cycle life after 6000 cycles (90.7%). Also, the asymmetric supercapacitor practical application was demonstrated by a glowing red light-emitting diode and driving a mini-rotating motor. These results demonstrate that the fabricated device presents a good capacity for energy storage without pyrolyzing the MOF structures. These findings can guide the development of high-performance SCs toward a new direction to improve their practical applications and motivate application of MOFs without pyrolysis or calcination.