We report the preparation of ZrO2 nanofiller-incorporated polymer nanocomposite electrolyte based on the PEO-NaPF6 matrix via standard solution cast method. The structure and morphology of polymeric films have been examined with X-ray diffraction and field emission scanning electron microscopy. Different interactions between the polymer, salt and nanofiller have been examined by Fourier transform infrared technique. The temperature-dependent (40–100 °C) electrical conductivity has been examined from complex impedance spectroscopy (CIS). The highest ionic conductivity is exhibited by 5 wt% nanofiller-based electrolyte and recorded ~ 2 × 10–4 S cm−1 at 100 °C. The voltage stability window of polymeric film checked from linear sweep voltammetry is about ~ 4 V, and ion transference number close to unity confirms the major contribution from ion conduction. The dielectric properties have been explored in terms of complex permittivity, loss tangent and complex conductivity. The dielectric plots have been further fitted with an associated equation to evaluate principal dielectric parameters. The optimized polymer electrolyte possesses the lowest relaxation time and the highest dielectric constant that suggests the highest ionic conductivity, which is in good correlation with impedance results. The dc conductivity is also highest for the optimum system, and relaxation time decreases with an increase in temperature. The thermal stability of polymer electrolytes is about 200 °C, as examined by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The ion transport parameters n, μ, D have been evaluated via FTIR, impedance spectroscopy and Bandara and Mellander (B–M) approach. Finally, the optimized polymer nanocomposite film has been used as an electrolyte-cum-separator for the fabrication of a solid-state symmetric supercapacitor. The electrochemical parameters specific capacitance, energy density, power density have been examined from cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge–discharge technique. It may be concluded that nanofiller incorporation is an effective strategy to enhance the properties of electrolyte and has the potential to adopt as an electrolyte-cum-separator for ultracapacitor.