Magnetic and electric fields are the loss of the field that occur continually around high voltage transmission lines in the power systems. The current and voltage are significant variables for generating magnetic and electric fields respectively. This research is interested in the development of these fields to store harvested energy and the correct way of using camera node monitoring. In this work, the authors purpose energy harvesting from magnetic and electric fields, with a case study based on 230 kV and 500 kV in the Thai power transmission system. Two approaches are used for the hybrid harvester, with the first method using the number of coil turns in each dielectric physical model, such as air, metal, or ferrite dielectric to harvest the magnetic field from the power line. The number of coils uses N-turn, 250 N, 600 N, and 1000 N, with a dielectric distance of 4, 6, and 10 cm is used. The second approach is electric field harvest, using a varied electrode plate from ground to an electric conductor, with three plates used in the experimental model. At the investigational stage, the common plate is varied from the nearest conductor to the ground to analyses data results. After that, two sources of energy are taken to the hybrid storage harvester using the rectifier circuit and stored in a super capacitor. The energy from the backup super capacitor is used to supply to the right-of-way camera monitoring or other low energy source devices. This study result show that energy harvesting from the field harvest varied according to the number of coil turns, distance of the dielectric, size of the plate, and distance from the high voltage conductor. The voltage from field can be stored to super capacitor from 0 V to approximately 0.8 V in 180 min for a magnetic field yield. Furthermore, the electric field harvesting can charge the supper capacitor from 0 to 15 V in 180 min. The research therefore combines two approaches for charging in the battery backup using low energy devices, referred to as a hybrid harvesting approach. This research is advantageous for right-of-way camera monitoring supply on high voltage–power transmission lines.