A facile one-step fabrication of coaxial fiber-based smart patterns for E-textile through 3D printing equipped with a coaxial spinneret is reported. Versatile smart textiles for different purposes can be fabricated by selecting different materials in construction of the coaxial layers. Examples such as silk energy-harvesting textile and energy-storage textile with superior performance are demonstrated. Electronic textile (E-textile) has drawn tremendous attention with the development of flexible and wearable electronics in recent years. Herein, we report the direct printing of E-textile composed of core-sheath fibers by employing a 3D printer equipped with a coaxial spinneret. Customer-designed core-sheath fiber-based patterns can be printed on textile for various purposes. For demonstration, we used carbon nanotubes (CNTs) as a conductive core and silk fibroin (SF) as a dielectric sheath, and fabricated a CNTs@SF core-sheath fiber-based smart pattern, which was further used as a triboelectricity nanogenerator textile. The smart textile could harvest biomechanical energy from human motion and achieve a power density as high as 18 mW/m2. We also demonstrated the printing of a supercapacitor textile for energy storage. The direct printing of smart patterns on textile may contribute to the large-scale production of self-sustainable E-textile with integrated electronics. E-textiles, inheriting tradition merits of textiles with incorporated electric components, have drawn great attention in recent years. However, the attachment of rigid and bulky electronics on textile will severely deteriorate the breathability and flexibility of the textile. Alternatively, integrating functional fibers in traditional fabrics is a versatile and promising approach while keeping the intrinsic merits of fabrics. Nevertheless, a practical approach to integrate smart fibers with textile is still lacking. Here, we report a facile one-step fabricating process for core-sheath fiber-based smart patterns on textile for E-textile, which are realized by a coaxial spinneret-equipped 3D printer. The printed smart pattern on textile, which is demonstrated for energy management and other applications, is beyond the conventionally aesthetic purpose or trademark identification of patterns, paving the way for facile fabrication of E-textile with various integrated electronics.