SrTiO3 perovskite possesses high dielectric properties and is potentially applicable for a high-temperature thermoelectric as well as supercapacitor materials. Theoretically, the physical properties of SrTiO3 can be improved by the doping process. Modification of local structure changes crystal field or geometric distortion will, in turn, influence its electrical conductivity. Currently, SrTiO3 has been widely studied with various dopants. However, there has not been a comprehensive study about structural modification using multivalent magnetic ion of Chromium (Cr) and external magnetic fields on the electrical conductivity. Cr ions have various valences of 2+, 3+, 4+, 5+, 6+, and the symmetry of 4h with six coordination numbers, which can change the local structure of SrTiO3. Besides, the radius of Ti ion in SrTiO3 is about 67 pm with 4+ valence, while Cr has the symmetry of 4h for the 3+ valence. Under these conditions, Cr is expected to reduce the lattice parameters and a slight shift of apical oxygen to the basal plane of its local octahedral structure. Since Cr interacts with an electromagnetic field in the range of visible light, it might be expected that this compound would show a shift of bandgap energy. As the valence also changes to a possible mixed state, the physical properties may exist in complex states. SrTi1-xCrxO3 samples were prepared via solid-state reaction in the various molar ratio of Cr doping. The phase and structure were analyzed using X-ray Diffraction. XRD confirmed that the SrTi1-xCrxO3 compounds phase was successfully formed, and a slight change in lattice parameters was observed. The local octahedral six-fold symmetry structure of SrTi1-xCrxO3 compounds also changed to be tetragonal with the presence of Cr. Based on the EDX data, the composition of SrTi1-xCrxO3 compounds corresponded to the designated composition. Furthermore, the magnetic field induced I-V conductivity measurement showed that higher Cr fraction enhanced its electrical conductivity. SrTi1-xCrxO3 (x = 0, 0.02, 0.04, and 0.1) optical band gap analysis from UV-Vis spectroscopy showed that the bandgap is in the range of semiconductor materials.