The high efficiency, stability and low cost are indispensable to the reversible ion batteries, especially on the large energy storage systems, portable electronic equipment, electric vehicles, aerospace and ecological environment. Micro-nano designs and morphologies control of the electrode materials are important to achieve a high energy storage performance. The micro-nano electrode materials which were fabricated using electrospinning method have the following advantages. Ⅰ.The one-dimensional construction unit is conducive to electrons rapid transfer. Ⅱ.The micro-nano construction unit has shortened ion diffusion distance and increased electrode/electrolyte contact surface area. Ⅲ.Three-dimensional network skeleton can ease the tension and effectively protect the electrode structure. At the same time, the structure, composition, dimension, surface modification, doping and other properties of electrode materials can be modified by adjusting the electrospinning parameters. Non-metallic (e.g. Si, Ge), metals (e.g. Sn, Sb), transition metal oxides (e.g. SnO 2 , Fe 2 O 3 , Co 3 O 4 ), metal sulfides (e.g. MoS 2 , Co 9 S 8 ) and phosphate (e.g. LiFePO 4 , Li 3 V 2 (PO 4 ) 3 ) are widely used in super capacitor, ion batteries (lithium ion batteries, sodium ion batteries, lithium sulfur batteries), and newly generated energy storage devices because of their advantages such as high theoretical specific capacity and energy density. However, the low conductivity and high volume expansion have largely affected its rate performance and reduced cycling life, restricted its commercialization developments. The combinations of the carbon materials (amorphous carbon, carbon nanotubes, and graphene) with the conducting polymers are promoted to solve the above problems and improve the energy storage performance. Electrospinning technology is one of the methods to control the morphology of the hybrid micro-nano structures. We can fabricate the self-supported spinning fiber composite materials through designing spinning device, controlling the spinning concentration, promoting the nanoparticles dispersion and adjusting the pyrolysis process. In recent years, flexible self-supported materials based on electrospinning have been widely used in energy storage, including super capacitor, separator material, ion batteries and so on. However, the electrospinning conditions and parameters differ from polymers, which are mainly determined by the molecular weight of the polymers, the distribution of charged groups, hydrophobicity, solvents and solution viscosity. The precursor electrospinning polymers are mainly divided into water-soluble and non-water-soluble, and the ordinary solvent concludes N, N-dimethylformamide, ethanol, etc. Polymers and metallic salts are often used in electrospinning to prepare micro-nano composite fibers, by adjusting the spinning parameters, such as the viscosity of polymer solution, voltage levels, the distance between the tip and receiving device, polymer transport rate, temperature and humidity to precise control its structural characteristics, realizing the enhancement of the energy storage performance and the cycling stability.