Power sources for electrical actuation systems need to be made as compact as possible for many potential applications. Size and weight constraints require that the energy and power densities of the source be as large as possible. Chemical double-layer (CDL) capacitor technology offers an excellent combination of the desirable energy and power density characteristics required in a source for these applications. For most actuation systems, the actuation process is typically pulsed with high peak-power requirements but with relatively modest average power levels. The power-time requirements for electrical actuators are characteristic of pulsed power technologies where the prime source is sized for the average power levels while an intermediate store provides the capability to achieve the peak requirements. Among the options for the power source are battery systems, capacitor systems or battery-capacitor hybrid systems. A battery-capacitor hybrid system uses the battery to supply the average power and the capacitor to meet the peak demands. Prior work has demonstrated that the hybrid power source results in a lighter weight power system (approximately 60% mass savings are realizable) while minimizing the voltage sag during the actuation pulse. While, in general, it is not possible to optimize both power and energy parameters simultaneously, the composite electrode structure developed at Auburn University, when used to construct chemical double layer capacitors, offers an excellent combination of the desirable energy and power density characteristics required in a source for these applications. The research effort described here focused on developing the procedures to form a sinter-bond between aluminum fibers in a carbon/aluminum composite electrode structure. The successful completion of this task enables the use of organic electrolytes in capacitors made using the composite electrode structure. Thereby increasing the energy storage density of the capacitor since it can operate at approximately three volts per cell as opposed to the approximately one volt per cell with the aqueous electrolytes currently being used in such capacitors. By increasing the energy density of the CDL the weight of the hybrid source will be lower offering more weight savings than that of a conventional source alone.