An anthracitic coal-derived activated porous carbon is proposed as a promising carbon electrode material for supercapacitor (SC) applications. The specific capacitance of this activated carbon SC electrode is related to the characteristics, such as specific surface area, pore size distribution, wettability, and conductivity. In the present work, a series of anthracite-based activated carbons (ABAC) were prepared via a multistage activation process and used as electrode materials for SCs. The multistage activation experiment was developed by exploring different activation temperatures, precursor/activating agent mass ratios, and process treating environments. The electrochemical performance of ABACs was evaluated in a three-electrode testing system. Multiple electrolytes were utilized, such as 1 M sulfuric acid (H2SO4) and 1 and 6 M potassium hydroxide (KOH) solutions. An optimum ABAC electrode was obtained, characterized by its largest wettability and superior conductivity, and achieved excellent electrochemical performance. The three-electrode system exhibited a specific capacitance of 288.52 and 260.30 F/g at 0.5 A/g in the 1 M H2SO4 and 6 M KOH electrolytes, respectively. It was found that moderate multistage activation temperatures are beneficial for the electrolyte uptake which enhances the specific capacitance. The high content of the oxygen functional groups on the activated carbon surface greatly improved its specific capacitance due to the increase in wettability. In the 1 M H2SO4 electrolyte, the working electrode exhibited better performance than in 1 M KOH because the ion diameter in the acidic electrolyte was more suitable for pore diffusion. The concentrated KOH electrolyte leads to an increase in specific capacitance due to increased ions being adsorbed by a certain number of the hydrophilic pores. Moreover, the specific capacitance of the optimum ABAC sample remained at 95.4% of the initial value after 1000 galvanostatic charge-discharge tests at 0.5 A/g, which is superior to the performance of SC grade commercial carbon.