Modern vehicles have increased functioning necessities, including more energy/power, storage for recovering decelerating energy, start/stop criteria, etc. However, lead-acid batteries (LABs) possess a shorter lifetime than lithium-ion and supercapacitors energy storage systems. The use of LABs harms the operation of transport vehicles. Therefore, this research paper pursues to improve the operating performance of LABs in association with their lifetime. Integrated LAB and supercapacitor improve the battery lifetime and efficiently provide for transport vehicles’ operational requirements and implementation. The study adopts an active-parallel topology approach to hybridise LAB and supercapacitor. A fully active-parallel topology structure comprises two DC-to-DC conversion systems. LAB and supercapacitor are connected as inputs to these converters to allow effective and easy control of energy and power. A cascaded proportional integrate-derivative (PID) controller regulates the DC-to-DC converters to manage the charge/release of combined energy storage systems. The PID controls energy share between energy storage systems, hence assisting in enhancing LAB lifetime. The study presents two case studies, including the sole battery application using different capacities, and the second, by combining a battery with a supercapacitor of varying capacity sizes. A simulation software tool, Matlab/Simulink, is used to develop the model and validate the results of the system. The simulation outcomes show that the battery alone cannot serve the typical transport vehicle (TV) requirements. The battery and output voltage of the DC-to-DC conversion systems stabilises at 12 V, which ensures consistent DC bus link voltage. The energy storage (battery) state-of-charge (SoC) is reserved in the range of 90% to 96%, thus increasing its lifespan by 8200 cycles. The battery is kept at the desired voltage to supply all connected loads on the DC bus at rated device voltage. The fully active topology model for hybrid LAB and supercapacitor provides a complete degree of control for individual energy sources, thus allowing the energy storage systems to operate as they prefer.