Stretchable conductive materials, a critical building block of soft electronics, typically require multiple components that synergistically contribute good mechanical, electrical, and interfacial properties. The overall performance is often hindered by phase instability and poor miscibility of functional fillers within polymer matrices, compromising the conductive percolative network. We addressed this challenge with an ice-templated, low-temperature polymerization (ITLP) strategy and created stretchable conducting hydrogels. Owning a hierarchical dendritic microstructure with mitigated nanoaggregation, the material exhibited 29-fold enhancement in toughness and 83-fold increase in conductivity. Strain sensors using such gels demonstrated a broad detection range, high sensitivity, and health-monitoring capability. ITLP gel electrodes exhibited 888 F/g specific capacitance and 2,097 mF/cm2 areal capacitance (368 F/g) when used in solid-state supercapacitors. Flexible and stretchable wearable supercapacitors have been successfully made and can power LEDs. The ITLP strategy is anticipated to create diverse high-performance soft-electronic materials for broad applications in energy, healthcare, and robotics. Stretchable conductive materials play an important role in soft electronics. However, the disconnected nanoaggregates induced by phase instability and poor miscibility of components always restrict their mechanical and electrical properties. The present work controls the nano- and microstructure of stretchable conductive polymer-based hydrogels by using an ice-templated, low-temperature polymerization strategy. The obtained hierarchically structured stretchable conductive hydrogel shows significantly enhanced stretchability, conductivity, and electrochemical properties, which makes it a promising candidate for many applications, such as versatile strain sensors and stretchable supercapacitors. A strategy of creating stretchable conducting hydrogels for emerging soft electronics is reported. With ice-templated low-temperature polymerization (ITLP), the conducting gel exhibited a hierarchical dendritic microstructure with mitigated nanoaggregation and significantly enhanced electrical conductivity and toughness. Using such gels, strain sensors presented a broad sensing range and high sensitivity for health monitoring. Stretchable solid-state supercapacitors demonstrated remarkable capacitance and flexibility as wearable energy-storage devices. Such a general ITLP method may create diverse soft-electronic materials for energy, healthcare, and robotic applications.