Pseudocapacitors with a fast faradic redox reaction during the electrochemical charge/discharge process hold great promise for delivering high power and high energy. Here, we used emerging oxygenated carbon nitride (OCN) as a model for nitrogen- and oxygen-enriched carbons and found an anion-selective charging behavior in aqueous electrolytes. The N- and O-mediated hydroxyl anion-selective charging originates from inbuilt surface-positive electrostatic potential localized at heptazine and quaternary N atom structural units. The carbon atoms in heptazine adjacent to pyridinic N act as the electron transfer active sites for faradic pseudocapacitance. The OCN free-standing films (FSFs) were developed as current collector-free electrodes, and stacking OCN FSFs can confer a cell with loading weight over a commercial level. For demonstration, a symmetrical cell with 17.7 mg cm−2 delivers an energy of 140.9 mW h at a high power of 2,499.9 mW, and almost 100% capacitance retention after 20,000 charge/discharge cycles at 50 mA. N- and O-mediated anion-selective charging pseudocapacitance originates from inbuilt surface-positive electrostatic potential. The carbon atoms in heptazine adjacent to pyridinic N act as the electron transfer active sites for faradic pseudocapacitance. A free-standing films (FSFs) stacking technique produces current collector-free electrodes with low interfacial resistance for electron and ion transport. The OCN FSFs stacking electrodes enable fast-charging pseudocapacitors delivering high power and high energy with broader potential for real-world impact. Pseudocapacitors, as efficient and reliable electrochemical energy-storage systems, attract persistent interest from fundamental to application research. The surface redox and intercalation are presently well-developed charging mechanisms for metal oxide-based electrode materials in aqueous electrolytes. However, the mechanisms are still not fully explored for metal-free heteroatom-enriched carbons due to the difficulty of controlling the heteroatom chemistry. We discovered a hydroxyl anion-selective charging for N-, O-enriched carbons, and N atoms at heptazine structural units develop surface-positive electrostatic potential and polarize adjacent carbon atoms as electron transfer active sites. Furthermore, N- and O-mediated reversible active sites and accessible fast electron and ion transport channels endow the stackable OCN free-standing films electrodes with fast and high energy storage performances beyond weight limitations of conventional electrode fabrication to a commercial level.