In recent years, the increasing demand for the establishment of smart ocean systems has promoted the exploration of self-powered sensing devices. However, a traditional battery has the disadvantages of limited energy storage and frequent replacement. These disadvantages make it difficult to power electronic equipment for a long time, which has become a major obstacle to constructing smart ocean systems. To meet these challenges, a new self-powered sensing device based on a microthermoelectric generator (MTEG) and flag-type triboelectric nanogenerator (FTENG) is proposed. The prototype is a hybrid energy-harvesting system. Through this prototype, solar and wind energy can be harvested simultaneously, and it can be employed to continuously power environmental sensors. In addition, the performance of the prototype was tested. Under the condition of a hot end at 70°C and a wind speed of 10 m/s, the prototype can charge the supercapacitor to 5.5 V in 10 min. Additionally, the prototype can sense and transmit wind speed and direction data. This research provides a new way for the establishment of smart ocean systems. Practical Applications In this paper, we present a novel self-powered sensing device based on MTEG and FTENG. The prototype is a hybrid energy-harvesting system. Through this prototype, solar and wind energy can be harvested simultaneously. When the FTENG unit works alone, it can achieve 24.1 V output voltage and 12.3 μA output current at a 10 m/s wind speed. The thermoelectric generator (TEG) unit can generate a 6.3 V output voltage and a 2 mA output current at 70°C. Through the rectifier circuit, the prototype can charge the supercapacitors (2.5F) to 5.5 V in 10 min. It can be used as a battery to continuously supply power to environmental sensors. In addition, environmental data such as wind speed and direction were sensed by the FTENG unit. These data can be transmitted and visually displayed with the assistance of the micro controller unit (MCU). The prototype can be used to sense information in harsh environments, reducing reliance on batteries to power electronics and the Internet of Things. This research provides a new way for the establishment of smart ocean systems.