A five-state modified BEG model is proposed for describing electrolyte in polar solvent in cylindrical electrode pore in which only one row of particles can be stationed. Two properties the closest to the actual situation of the aqueous electrolyte are integrated into the model: cation is dimer comprised of two tangentially tethered hard spheres of different diameters: one is charged, while the other is neutral, and polar solvent is modeled as neutral hard sphere with an electric dipole. The system partition function is obtained by numerically solving maximum real root of characteristic equation of 25×25 Kramers-Wannier transfer matrix. The model is used to investigate effects of ion structure and electric valence, solvent electric dipole, and cylindrical pore radius on specific differential capacitance Cd and specific energy storage E of the resulting supercapacitor. Main findings are briefly described below. (i) The dimer counter-ion electric valence does not exert obvious influence on the saturation value Esat of the E, but reduces the threshold electrode potential strength Usat, beyond which the Esat value is just reached. (ii) Whether the dimer counter-ion is monovalent or bivalent, the Cd peak height and the Esat value tend to rise with the dimer neutral site size d+0 decreasing, but influence of the d+0 value on the Usat value is very small. Only when the d+0 value is small enough, the Usat value rises a little with decrease of the d+0 value. (iii) Increase of solvent electric dipole moment (whether by increasing the dipole charge or dipole length) always raises the Esat value, and enlarges width of the pure solvent domain or zero Cd and zero E domain around the zero electrode potential, but does not change the Usat value obviously. (iv) With the pore size increasing, the Esat value reduces and the Usat value increases. So, using small size pore is favorable to improve the supercapacitor performance from the perspective of energy storage and electrode potential applied. (v) The three parameters: d+0, dipole charge, and dipole length, are cooperative in influencing the Esat value.