Graphene, a class of two-dimensional allotrope of carbon-based materials, is emerged as exciting novel material that has notable application in various fields. Due to its high specific surface area, good chemical stability and outstanding electrical properties, graphene is one of ideal candidates for next generation storage devices. In the present investigation, various types of hybrid formation electrodes, consisting of graphene nanoplatelets and different weight ratios of MnO2 particles were fabricated for application to supercapacitors, to achieve higher specific capacitance combined with mechanical robustness. The morphology and thickness of the graphene electrodes were characterized by Scanning Electron Microscopy. Experiments on structural integrity and energy storage capacity of the electrodes were also carried out. Quasi solid-state electrolytes, consisting of different wt% loadings of succinonitrile (SN) as plasticizer and the ionic liquid 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate (BMImBF4) entrapped within the structure of copolymer poly vinylidenefluoride-hexafluoropropylene (PVDF-HFP), were prepared to be utilized as ionic conductors in supercapacitors. The ionic liquid concentration varied to investigate the effect on the ionic conductivity of the device while the addition of the plasticizer produced a more compact device. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was used to characterize the thermal stabilities of the electrolytes. DSC studies confirmed that polymer electrolytes remain stable in the same phase over a wide temperature range of -40 to 100 °C. The configuration of supercapacitor started by impregnating carbon fibers with the graphene paste, creating this way composite electrodes. Polymer electrolyte was then applied and solidified between graphene electrodes. A compact supercapacitor was assembled finally by using glass fibers as separator impregnated with electrolyte to avoid contact of the electrodes. The electrochemical behavior of the supercapacitors was evaluated by cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge/discharge. The maximum value of specific capacitance achieved using polymer electrolyte was ~160 F/g. Finally, tensile experiments were performed at ambient conditions to determine the mechanical behavior of the supercapacitors. The results of this study are very promising for the development of materials with high performance in the field of energy storage with applications to wearable electronics.