Surface modifi cation of graphene is of crucial importance for their end applications. Surface treated graphene can be processed very easily by layer-by-layer assembly, spin-coating, vacuum fi ltration techniques, etc. The presence of functionalizing agent prevents restacking of graphene layers and forms stable dispersion either in water or in organic solvents. Surface modifi cation of graphene can be done in several ways such as with chemical, electrochemical as well as sonochemical methods. Chemically functionalized graphene can be prepared by covalent and non-covalent surface modifi cation techniques and it has been found that both of these aforesaid techniques (covalent and non-covalent) have been proven to be the most successful for the preparation of processable graphene. In chemical methods, fi rst the surface treatment of graphene oxide (GO) can be carried out followed by the reduction of functionalized GO. However, the removal of excess modifi er, consumption of organic solvent, use of toxic reducing agents, surface defects and loss of electrical conductivity of graphene are the major concerns to the materials scientists. In order to overcome these problems, several studies have been carried out in recent times for the preparation of surface-modifi ed graphene directly from graphite. Sonication of graphite in presence of surface modifi er dissolved in a suitable solvent leads to the formation of graphene. However, the yield is much less (~5%) as compared to chemical functionalization techniques. On the other hand, one-step electrochemical exfoliation of graphite into graphene is the most effective method for graphene preparation. Interestingly, this is a completely green route for graphene production that is less time consuming, uses water as solvent, consumes much less electricity, easily isolates product from the un-reacted graphite and has high production yield. Surface-modifi ed graphene is widely used in polymer nanocomposites, super-capacitor devices, drug delivery systems, solar cells, memory devices, transistor devices, biosensors, etc.