Research Highlights: • Successful synthesis of CuO NPs using extracts from dried, finely ground Moringa Oleifera as the reducing/capping agent • The green synthesize CuO NPs displayed supercapacitive behavior. • The reflection spectra demonstrate that the material exhibits low reflectance properties in the medium ultraviolet region. • Good absorbance and low band gap energy values (Eg = 2.5 eV). • Potential application to supercapacitor and other energy storage In this study, we describe the environmentally friendly synthesis of copper oxide (CuO) and its subsequent characterization for use in supercapacitors. Using extracts from dried, finely ground Moringa Oleifera as the reducing/capping agent, we created the CuO NP. The produced NPs were then examined using X-ray Diffractometer (XRD), Ultraviolet-Visible spectroscopy, energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Electrochemical analysis techniques like cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) review were utilized to look at the electrochemical behavior of CuO-based electrodes. The analysis that followed determined that the green synthesize CuO NPs displayed supercapacitive behavior. This suggests that the synthesized CuO NPs will naturally encourage application as supercapacitive electrodes because it has been found that NPs absorbance varies linearly with NPs concentration, the 0.6 moles of CuO NPs produced the highest absorbance reading of 0.35 at 398 nm. The reflection spectra demonstrate that the material exhibits low reflectance properties in the medium ultraviolet region. However, as the spectra move toward the visible light region, the reflectance rises to its maximum value of 16 percent in the short ultraviolet region. The calculated crystallite sizes are as follows: 0.2 mols CuO NP, 0.3 mols CuO NP, 0.4 mols CuO NP, 0.5 mols CuO NP, and 0.6 mols CuO NP at 43.14 nm, 43.68 nm, 24.23 nm, 5.70 nm, and 12.87 nm, respectively, where Average D = 25.93 nm is the average crystalline size across all samples. the emergence of cubic grains that resemble nanorods with tube-like holes, SEM images demonstrate that CuO NPs can be distinguished from one another as seen in 0.2 mole CuO NPs.