Phosphorus playing an important role in industrial production and human physiology is abundant and widespread on the earth. Black phosphorus (BP) with unique structure and outstanding properties is one of many existence forms of phosphorus. Since the researchers exfoliated two-dimensional (2D) BP from the bulk BP several years ago, the 2D BP has attracted lots of attention as well as many progresses about 2D BP have been reported. A lot of interesting information that many monolayer phosphorus are connected by Van der Waals force to form BP with semiconductor properties and the electron and optoelectronic properties of BP are more flexible because the direct band gap can be changed with the numbers of layers increasing or decreasing have been given. The layered structure and excellent properties make BP have great application prospects in many aspects, such as field effect transistors, photodetectors, catalysis, batteries, supercapacitor, and biomedical, and so on. Preparing BP is the beginning of application and the main methods for synthesis bulk BP is that high-pressure converts red or white phosphorus into BP so far. 2D BP has more advantages than the bulk BP which has a large proportion in all synthesized BP, so finding more new ways to get 2D BP is becoming more and more important. Many exfoliation methods, such as liquid-phase exfoliation (LPE), mechanical exfoliation (ME), etc., have been developed to quickly and easily obtain 2D BP. However, mono- or few-layer sample exfoliated from bulk BP is easy to react with oxygen and water when exposed to air and light. Some studies have explained the degradation mechanism of BP and introduced a few targeted methods (add protective layer, chemically modification, doping, etc.) to effectively reduce the oxidation rate of BP. Here, we will detail the structural and properties of BP, preparation methods, antioxidant methods, and applications to give a clear understanding about 2D BP as well as there will also be a conclusion and outlook at the end of this chapter aiming to have certain guiding significance for the next study about BP.