For the energy management of the boost converter based battery/supercapacitor (SC) hybrid energy storage system (HESS) in electric vehicles, a robust current control should be achieved for the battery such that the battery safety can be guaranteed. In this paper, an estimator-based adaptive sliding-mode control (estimator-based ASMC) strategy is proposed for the current tracking control of the boost converter based battery/SC HESS. By considering the unmodeled dynamics of the SC and the unknown disturbances, the equivalent circuit and the state-space average model are established for the boost converter based battery/SC HESS. To achieve the current tracking control, a sliding surface is defined based on the estimated tracking current error. The average control factor is designed according to the sliding-mode control (SMC) strategy. Furthermore, the adaptation laws are designed based on the state observers and the Lyapunov function, which can be used to estimate the load variations and unknown external input voltage. Finally, the adaptive control factor is recalculated based on the estimator-based ASMC strategy. In practical application, a hysteresis control strategy and an average filter method are developed to guarantee the smooth SMC for the boost converter based battery/SC HESS. Simulations and experiments are established to verify the estimator-based ASMC strategy. Compared to the conventional total SMC (TSMC) and PI strategies, the estimator-based ASMC strategy has over 37% and 50% settling-time improvement of current adjustment to deal with the load variation, respectively. The estimator-based ASMC strategy can improve the operating stability of the boost converter based battery/SC HESS under different operating modes. The battery can provide a constant or optimal current to the load. Therefore, the boost converter based battery/SC HESS with the proposed estimator-based ASMC strategy can effectively ensure the system stability and extend the battery life, simultaneously.