Green chemistry gives us the chance to prevent the negative effects. Green nanotechnology has an enterprising effect on the nanomaterials or the design of the product by removing or lowering pollution, which means that it remediates the existing environmental problems, and also it is a cost-effective environmentally friendly method. The excellent resources for the production of greener biomaterials are plants. In this work main purpose of research is to account for the studies on the green synthesis of Bi12W2O27 nanoparticles and their multifunctional activity. Tender jackfruit extract was used in different volumes as fuel, synthesized materials were subjected to various characterization techniques like powder X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, field emission scanning electron microscopy, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, ultraviolet–visible absorption spectroscopy. The X-ray diffraction patterns showed the tetragonal nanocrystalline structure with a crystallite size of 13.57 nm. The Fourier transform infrared spectrum represents the characteristic Bi–O, W–O, and W–O–W stretching vibration bands. UV–Vis spectra show the absorption peak at 359 nm and the band gap was found to be 2.75 eV. The scanning electron microscope images reveal the morphology of Bi14W2O27 nanomaterials, the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy showed the percentage purity of the nanomaterial. Further, photodegradation of MB dye was investigated successfully under a visible light source, it shows the degradation efficiency of 92.65% within 180 min. The same Bi14W2O27 nanomaterials were subjected to photoluminescence analysis and it is confirmed that nanomaterials emit broad blue light under 385 nm excitation. Further, Bi14W2O27 exhibits electrochemical activity and material is examined for biosensor activity using dopamine as analyte and response was good, hence the material is novel in its structural parameters and further electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis confirms it can also be used for supercapacitor applications.