All-encompassing endeavors to survey flexible, light-weight, and environmentally friendly energy storage gadgets have intensified nowadays. This is the reason for the origination of portable and flexible electronics that interrogate progressive power and energy day after day at a fast pace. Among these electronics, roll-up displays, photovoltaic cells, and wearable devices are very well known. Being able to bring forth eye-catching specific/volumetric energy density, flexible solid-state supercapacitors have enchanted growing attentiveness; especially when they are compared with traditional capacitors, they open more space to work on as promising agents for future demands. To add to their profitability, flexible solid-state supercapacitors have gained more attention since they are small in dimensions, exceedingly reliable, feathery in weight, and straightforward to deal with. Besides, flexible solid-state supercapacitors present to function in a broad temperature range. All discussed above convert solid-state supercapacitors into brilliant energy storage implements for both flexible and wearable capacitors that seem to make significant changes in high technology urging in case they become commercially available. Production procedure, scale and cost, industry standards, and other issues freeze the wide future employment perspective of flexible supercapacitors. Except in some special occasions, it is difficult to see large-scale uses in actual work scenarios at this stage. Dozens of researchers still need to continue to work hard to overcome the introduced barriers. The present review looks into latter-day fulfillment in designing, fabricating, and characterizing flexible solid-state supercapacitors with huge power density along with considerable rate performance, long cycle life, high security, and mastery. To make a more comprehensive analysis, contemporary challenges and future favorable circumstances are talked through to provide precious data for the design and development of high-performance flexible solid-state supercapacitors.