The fashionable investigates the bismuth oxide nano-materials were synthesized using bismuth nitrate as an ingredient. The samples were deposited using the electrodeposition technique via an aqueous route with varying deposition time variations. Prepared samples were annealed at 573 K in a muffle furnace. All deposited thin film electrodes were physical and electrochemical characterized via X-ray diffraction (XRD), Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), Elemental mapping, Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), Contact Angle, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and supercapacitive measurements. XRD of all deposited samples reveals polycrystalline nature with a tetragonal crystal structure. FE-SEM shows revolutionary morphological images of spruce leaf-like architecture. EDX analysis shows the elemental mapping of the deposited materials. TEM revels the formation of nano granules structures indicating the formation of the crystalline bismuth oxide. XPS confirms the formation of Bi2CuO4. All samples show the hydrophilic nature of deposited materials from contact angle. Cyclic voltammetry (CV), Galvanostatic charge–discharge (GCD), and impedance measurements are used to examine the supercapacitive characteristics in an aqueous 1 M KOH electrolyte. All CV curves show mixed capacitive nature. The results of the investigations are highest specific capacitance (SC) of 706.47F/g at a scan rate of 2 mV/s was calculated. The specific energy (SE) of 49.89 Wh/kg, and specific power (SP) of 17.51 kW/kg were calculated at 40 mA/cm2 current density. The capacitive nature and internal resistance were observed using the Nyquist plot for the optimized electrode which is about 2.11 Ohm. CV, GCD, and impedance measurements are used to characterize the electrochemical parameters of the asymmetric supercapacitors device (Bi2CuO4//AC) asymmetric solid-state device (ASSD). All CV curves show mixed capacitive nature. The results of the investigations are the highest specific capacitance of 98.71F/g at a scan rate of 5 mV/s was investigated. The SE of 30.14 Wh/kg, and SP of 2.08 kW/kg were calculated at 10 mA/cm2 current density. The capacitive nature and internal resistance were observed using the Nyquist plot for the optimized electrode which is about 1.25 Ω.