A facile hydrothermal technique was employed to synthesized non-modulated cobalt-doped molybdenum sulfide (MoS2) nanoflowers. The as-prepared materials were coated on commercially available Ni-foam to fabricate electrode materials for supercapacitor applications. The elucidation of the structural information, surface morphology, microstructural properties, as well as surface areas was successfully carried out by X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) measurements, respectively. XRD and Raman analysis confirmed the structural changes of the materials, which depict a successful synthesis of cobalt-doped MoS2 with typical phase change and the red-shifted peaks of Raman spectra compared to pristine MoS2. The flower-like morphology and agglomerating nanosheets of various nanometer diameters of the microstructural properties of the obtained Co-MoS2 were established from SEM and TEM images. The surface areas of the CMS1 and CMS3 electrode materials were, respectively, calculated to be 18.0607 and 14.5519 mg−2 from BET surface analysis. The electrode materials were electrochemically evaluated for their energy storage performance, the materials exhibit specific capacitances of 164 and 146 Fg−1 at 1 Ag−1 for the working electrodes (CMS1 and CMS3), respectively. Also, the energy densities of 3.67 and 2.05 Wh/kg with power densities of 3279.97 and 2960.26 W/kg were calculated for both electrode materials, respectively. The results illustrate that the Co-MoS2 can be suitable for an effective electrode material for prospective supercapacitor applications. NOVELTY STATEMENT: Non-modulated Co-MoS2 was synthesized via facile hydrothermal techniques. It was established that any concentration of Cobalt higher than 3 moles might reduce the performance of the nanocomposite. The highest specific capacitance recorded for the electrodes was 164 F/g at 1 A/g. The electrode materials were established to be a potential material for supercapacitor applications.