Although presently utility power systems operate successfully without energy storage, cost-effective ways of storing electrical energy can help make the grid more efficient and reliable. Electric energy storage systems (ESSs) can be used to store excess electricity generated during off-peak periods for discharging it at peak hours and thus substituting the generation reserve when it is more required. This application could yield significant benefits including a reduced need for peak generation (particularly from expensive peaking plants) and reduced strain on transmission and distribution networks. ESSs can also provide critically important ancillary services such as grid frequency control, voltage support, and operating reserve, thereby enhancing the grid stability, power quality and reliability of supply. There are numerous candidate emerging technologies available in the market for short-term and long-term energy storage with high potential of being applied in electric power systems. Such modern devices include superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES), supercapacitor energy storage (SCES) also called ultracapacitors, flywheel energy storage (FES) and advanced batteries (ABESS), among others. Although several of these technologies were initially envisioned for large-scale load-leveling applications, energy storage is presently seen mostly as a solution for solving many of the challenges regarding the increasing use of renewable energy sources, and improving the operation and control of modern power systems. The purpose of this chapter is to provide major insights and projections regarding the future of emerging energy storage technologies in utility power systems around the world. The document provides both the comprehensive analysis and extensive data of leading emerging ESS applications. It includes a broad analysis of the new market for energy storage technologies applied in the global utility power sector. The research examines opportunities for energy storage systems to beneficially impact the generation, distribution, and transmission of electric power. © 2012 Nova Science Publishers, Inc. All rights reserved.