Here, we investigate the effect of temperature on solution combustion synthesized MnFe2O4 nanoparticles (NPs) as supercapacitor electrode material that would affect the structural, optical, electrochemical, magnetic and sensing properties. The variation in temperature influences the structure and morphology of synthesized NPs which in turn produces defect states in NPs. Powder X-ray diffraction studies confirms the presence of cubic spinel structure with increase in crystallinity and crystallite size with increase in temperature. Scanning electron microscopy analysis indicates the morphology change in NPs from spherical to network like interlinking to the formation of polyhedron structure at higher temperature. Photoluminescence, energy dispersive X-ray analysis, X-ray photoelectron scpectroscopy and UV-visible diffused reflectance spectroscopy studies emphasize the increase in surface oxygen vacancies concentration with narrowing of band gap from 2.9 to 2.5 eV. Electrochemical studies designate the excellent performance and desirable cyclic stability of synthesized NPs. In particular, the specific capacitance of synthesized NP increases with increase in temperature, reaching highest specific capacitance from CV was 297.7 F/g for 0.1 M HCl and 158.85 F/g for 0.1 M NaNO3 electrolytes for NP synthesized at 500 °C. The synthesized NPs show excellent stability with high capacity retention in both the electrolytes. The graphite modified electrode can also sense Paracetamol and D-Glucose at a very low concentration of 1–5 mM. Meanwhile, it acts as a very good photocatalyst to decolourize Methylene Blue and Alizarin Red S dye under Sunlight illumination due to the increase in concentration of surface oxygen vacancies with narrow band gap. Finally, the synthesized MnFe2O4 NP can be used as a potential supercapacitor electrode with excellent stability and recyclability, to sense the analyte even at very low concentration and also act as a photocatalyst with high recyclability with the help of magnetic nature towards environmental cleaning.