In the high voltage applications of microelectronics and micro-mechanics, such as micro robots, soft actuators, skin electronics, micro sensors, integrated electronic circuits and so on, energy storage/supply devices with high output voltage are urgently needed. In recent years, high voltage micro-supercapacitors(HVMSCs), acting as power supply devices and due to their advantages of miniaturization, portability, flexibility, high cycle life span and high specific power/energy density, have been widely used in microcircuit systems, which can meet high voltage output and energy supply. In addition, HVMSCs can be used as energy storage devices to replace the large electrolytic capacitors and batteries, making electronic products more likely to be integrated construction, high density and miniaturization. According to the existing research, the increase on operating voltage window of MSCs can significantly improve the output energy density of MSCs, and further expand its application. Therefore, how to prepare all solid-state HVMSCs from the aspects of materials, structures and manufacturing methods has become a research hotspot. Based on this, the charge storage mechanism and electrochemical performance characteristics of MSCs are surveyed firstly. Secondly, the implementation principles on high potential window of MSCs are analyzed. Then, the manufacturing methods of HVMSCs are concluded in detail, comprising the preparation of electrode materials with high voltage (carbon-based materials, transition metal oxides,conductive polymers and composite electrode materials) and the manufacturing of high-voltage packaging structures (laser processing, inkjet printing, 3D printing, screen printing, roll to roll printing and mask coating). In addition, the applications of HVMSCs in energy storage power devices, flexible sensors and wearable devices are summarized. Finally, based on comprehensive investigation in research status of HVMSCs, the research trend and development of HVMSCs in high voltage fields, such as wearable and portable electronic devices, is prospected.