Carbon-supported single-atom catalysts are a new class of catalysts, which are promising for many energy-conversion and energy-storage applications. This review offers a critical overview of the unique merits and the state-of-the-art design of these catalysts. A comprehensive summary is presented on their recent advances in electrocatalysis, supercapacitors, and batteries. Future challenges and opportunities are highlighted. Single-atom catalysts (SACs) have the advantages of both homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts, which show promising application potentials in many renewable energy-conversion technologies and critical industrial processes. In particular, carbon-supported SACs (CS-SACs) are of great interest because of their maximal atom utilization (∼100%), unique physicochemical structure, and beneficial synergistic effects between active catalytic sites and carbon substrates. In this review, we offer a critical overview of the unique advantages of CS-SACs related to their material designs, catalytic activities, and potential application areas. The state-of-the-art design and synthesis of CS-SACs are described under the framework of bottom-up and top-down approaches. We also comprehensively summarize recent advances in developing CS-SACs for important electrochemical reactions, i.e., oxygen reduction reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, oxygen evolution reaction, CO2 reduction reaction, nitrogen reduction reaction, serving as bi-/multi-functional electrocatalysts, and usages in supercapacitors and batteries. Lastly, the critical challenges and future opportunities in this emerging field are highlighted. Single-atom catalysts with inherent advantages of homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts are of significant scientific value, and they also exhibit practical importance in enabling various electrochemical conversions. Carbon-supported single-atom catalysts (CS-SACs) with their maximized atom utilization efficiency, low-coordination environment of metal centers, and distinct structure are excellent candidates for many energy-storage and energy-conversion applications. In this review, we offer a critical overview of unique merits and state-of-the-art designs of CS-SACs under the framework of bottom-up and top-down strategies. This review also comprehensively summarizes recent advances in the development of CS-SACs for electrocatalysis (ORR, HER, OER, CO2RR, NRR, and bi-/multi-functional electrocatalysis), supercapacitors, and batteries. Future vital challenges and opportunities of CS-SACs are also discussed.