Bacterial cellulose (BC) is a type of high molecular polymer produced by microorganisms. In recent years, composite materials prepared by bacterial cellulose have also received much attention and some breakthroughs have been made in the preparation and application of bacterial cellulose composite materials. However, bacterial cellulose often has significant limitations when it is used alone. For example, pure bacterial cellulose is expensive and it does not have characteristics of conductivity, antibacterial, etc., which limits the scope of applications of bacterial cellulose. Therefore, the researches of bacterial cellulose composites are particularly important. However, the applications of bacterial cellulose composites face two difficulties. First, bacterial cellulose composite materials are difficult to produce. Second, bacterial cellulose and auxiliary materials (silk fibroin, silver nanoparticles, etc. ) are expensive, which results in high cost of bacterial cellulose composites production. Therefore, the high value utilization of bacterial cellulose became a research hotspot. In recent years, many related studies on bacterial cellulose composites have focused on two aspects. (i) Researchers can obtain high-performance composites by optimizing bacterial cellulosic composite production processes. (ii) Bacterial cellulose composite materials are mainly applied to electrode materials and wound dressings. Researchers had made some breakthroughs in these two fields. However, in general, the development of bacterial cellulose composites is slightly insufficient. In response to this phenomenon, this paper summarized the comprehensive utilization of bacterial cellulose in the fields of biomedicine, optoelectronics, food industry and other fields. In the field of food industry, this article discussed preparation of bioplastics from bacterial cellulose and the developments of food grade Pickering emulsions. In the field of biomedicine, bacterial cellulose combined with benzalkonium chloride, copper, silver, zinc oxide nanoparticles and other antibacterial substances to form composite materials. The new composite materials had shown good effects in tissue engineering field and medical dressing field. In the field of optoelectronics, the applications of bacterial cellulose in catalysts, electrode materials and supercapacitors were introduced in this paper. In other fields, this paper described the studies of bacterial cellulose on heavy metal recovery. At the end of this paper, the problems of bacterial cellulose composites that need to be solved were analyzed, and the development prospects of bacterial cellulose composites were prospected. The paper provided some references for the high value utilization of bacterial cellulose composites.