Green and efficient battery and electrocatalytic reactions are essential requirements for sustainable development. Green and sustainable development is deemed as the demands of the new age, thus green battery and green electrocatalysis is urgently required. Achieving green and efficient battery and electrocatalytic reaction is a fundamental requirement for green chemistry and sustainable development. One of the key factors is the selection of electrolytes with high efficiency and the selection of solvents for synthesizing efficient electrode materials. Previous study mainly focused on the utilization of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and ionic liquids. However, the high volatility of VOCs would lead to high air pollution and thus endanger human health; the high price, high instability and complex synthesizing procedure of ionic liquids would also hinder the wide application of ionic liquids. Deep eutectic solvents (DESs) are new type of green electrolytes and solvents. Compared with traditional solvents and electrolytes (such as ionic liquids, water, and supercritical carbon dioxide), DESs have the advantages of simple synthesis, low price, high biocompatibility, and high designability. Therefore, DESs have great application prospects in the field of battery and electrocatalysis. However, there is not a large amount of literature reports or a review of systematical conclusion. It is necessary to review the field of DESs application in battery and electrocatalytic reaction. The contents of this review include (1) DESs as green electrolytes for batteries and electrocatalytic reaction, which includes solar cells, flow redox cell, lithium ion battery, aluminum battery, sodium battery, zinc battery, supercapacitor, carbon dioxide electroreduction, nitrogen electrocatalysis, oxygen reduction reaction, oxygen evolution reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, water splitting reaction and ethanol electrochemical oxidation; (2) DESs for preparation electrode materials in battery and electrocatalytic reaction; (3) DESs as a solvent for recycling electrode materials; (4) Outlook and related issues. This review would be helpful to design new types of DESs for achieving efficient and green battery and electrocatalysis.