In the 21st century, aggravating energy and environmental problems such as fossil fuel depletion, global warming, and pollution are ringing the alarm bell to the human society. Thus, green energy and environment technologies have been the urgent and important areas. Among several possible alternatives for fossil energy, eventually solar energy is probably the only one that can meet the multifold demand for long-term human needs. The utilization of solar energy consists of two steps: First, solar energy can be effectively converted to applicable forms (electricity or fuel) from solar power to suppress energy crisis and global warming. Aiming at this goal, solar cells and photocatalysts for production of H2 and reduction of CO2 are mostly concerned. Second, high-performance energy storage devices are also required. This is mainly due to the intermittent characteristics of solar energy and other renewable energy sources. Supercapacitor is one of the promising devices for this purpose. Nanoscience and nanotechnology are interdisciplinary fields that bring together physicists, chemists, materials scientists, biochemists, and engineers to meet the challenges that humankind faces. Among the current subjects in nanoscience and nanotechnology, nanomaterials are developing fast and explosively and attract a huge amount of attention. Nowadays, a variety of nanomaterials have been employed to solve the energy and environmental problems. Among them, graphene, a single layer of two-dimensional network of hexagonal structured sp2-hybridized carbon atoms, has shown many unique properties, such as the quantum Hall effect, high carrier mobility at room temperature, large theoretical specific surface area, good optical transparency, high Young's modulus, and excellent thermal conductivity. Furthermore, it has high chemical stability and can be produced in a low-cost, controlled, scalable, and reproducible manner. Thus, graphene has been useful in various energy and environment applications, such as solar cells, high-performance electrodes in supercapacitors, degradation of organic pollutants, catalysts for reduction of CO2, chemical sensors for pollutants, and broadband photodetectors. In this chapter, we will systematically review the synthesis of graphene-based materials and their applications in energy-and environment-related fields described above. Some future research perspectives and new challenges that the field will have to address are also discussed.